Title: Finance Committee Meeting 8-27-2025
Video ID: eVDIh67x4S0
==================================================

[00:00:00]
what members we are streaming well good morning everyone and welcome to the Board of Education finance committee meeting I would like to call the meeting to order Dr Albright may have a roll call please have there been any videos I believe she's signing on Ronaldo Dominguez thank you our first item is to consider adoption of the August 27th 2025 finance committee meeting agenda may have a motion please move to a DOT the August 27th 2025 finance committee meeting agenda I will second thank you

[00:01:00]
Dr Albright never roll call Josefina Dominguez yes Ronaldo yes Heather Benavides yes and good morning yes thank you our next item is to have an update from the finance committee meeting on July 23rd 2025 may have a motion of the finance meeting of July 23rd 2025 this is board member benefits a second this is boards casino is to have an update

[00:02:00]
on the districts and districts investment program for the 4th quarter of fiscal year 2025 and are presenter for this is Miss Apodaca and Mr Turnbull you have the floor sir thank you madam chair members of the board superintendent Dr Blakey again this is an investment update for the period of April 1st through June 30th 2025 so the district's portfolio is was invested primarily and money market funds on the total of portfolio decrease from 4.31 to 4.266% and 24% in the local government

[00:03:00]
investment pool and current money for money market funds are at approximately 425 million as compared to $257 million from the previous quarter we did have some operational fund treasuries mature in June so that's a total from the treasuries to the money market the local government Investment Portfolio went from up to 230 million to $188 from $180 and with that I stand for any questions thank you thank you Mr Turnbull members of the committee any questions related to the item is curious what do we do with that money

[00:04:00]
play or goes into the next year's budget you know numbers for different things but it's all allocated to a funding the district's needs but that would be you know how budget that money now OK Google

[00:05:00]
that's good to know and I do have a request for are we on 4.1.1 yes we are clarification on fleas for page 28 and let me find section never mind but just for the sake of clarity we follow all laws and and are doing right by the public thank you thank you any other questions

[00:06:00]
okay I seen that we will go ahead and continue thank you Mr Turnbull our next item is to consider approval of fiscal year 2700 calendar and are presenter for this is Miss Apodaca and Miss Montoya you have the floor ladies thank you for member Romero and finance committee board members superintendent Blakey the item up for consideration is are FY 2700 calendar so last year we provided you won a little bit later in the year and this year we wanted to start earlier so we have the budget calendar so you will be aware of the activities that happened with the upcoming budget you'll see it period 15 date for submission and that day is what's in statute historically we do

[00:07:00]
get a little bit of an extension so if that happens this could change a bit but at least you get understanding of the activities leading up to the approval of the budget thank you Miss Appalachia do we have any questions from the committee board member Dominguez yes I do have a question so regarding the third one to the road Community meetings will you be scheduling something with the community engagement ad hoc committee planning that eventually thank you for that question I believe her already started to happen with the board office

[00:08:00]
and you know you're correct they are talking about where the meeting should take place in the dates and the agenda that type of information already started to to begin so Rosalinda if you want to add anything yes so we've we've already found the meetings and they are in October we the dates are still being solidified just like mentioned depending on who's available we're going to have one problem and then one again on the west side and we also have started our survey so we'll have that available coming out soon in that they probably at the end of September so that it'll be ready before the meeting and also that once again they can

[00:09:00]
fill out the survey at the time like we did last year so what questions are who's framing the questions and is it the finance department that will be in charge of that so we have we already set up preliminary questions we had Asia Chris West team help us with the with the formatting of the questions so that they're so it's easy to compile the information that we get and so they just sent me back another one to review so I'm going to be reviewing that and then we'll probably have it ready when we did bring it or we were going to take it to that house committee meeting meeting so we asked to be put on that agenda

[00:10:00]
okay I was just some feedback based on last year and then recent recent feedback the the complaint about surveys is that Community doesn't get a chance to frame the question so if we could have I think we've had a free response in the past and my incorrect on that is actually tried to make sure that we are kind of giving information so it's not just all over the place and then it's hard to compile the day period thank you thank you member of use

[00:11:00]
thank you sir Tapia Romero so thank you Rosalinda and renette for that for the calendar and for the information and so I would request that because not all the board members are on the ad hoc committee and I was recently removed that information about the meetings or about the community engagement event for the budget process be disseminated to all board members so that we have an opportunity to participate and also reach out to our own community members and encourage participation and attendance because obviously they're very interested in how we're spending the money and the event that I was part of last year while it was fantastic there was very little Community engagement so we just want to really make sure that the community members know this is happening and that they have all the information so please make sure and communicate that to all board members thank you we definitely will do that as soon as we get everything solidified thank you for that thank you remember tomorrow go ahead

[00:12:00]
my my question is on the program presentations for special education could you give me a breakdown of about what that would look like a little bit I know that when we look at State funds and then going down to district is that going to is that going to be the presentation on funding flow so I am working on those budget presentation templates currently I'm going to try to follow what was done last year period

[00:13:00]
presentation or if we have to follow this calendar as as given to you now will move everything up a month okay thank you thank you any other questions okay thank you Miss Montoya we will continue our next item is to consider approval of Grant budget adjustments for two funds the first one is for appropriation number one and also Mark Appropriations number two and are presenter for this is going to be Miss Apodaca and Miss Montoya thank you madam chairman of the committee Superman Council of government results

[00:14:00]
they are projections and now that we have the actual allocations we are processing Corrections for Budget decreases for the 2-year implementation of State direct grants that incurred and the reason we're doing this is because we used up all of it in one year so instead of how we had projected that it would go over 2 years we've depleted the entire allocation by 6:30 so it's not any loss of funding period for that clarification on that members of the committee to we have any questions on this adjustment thank you just a quick question I don't want to make assumptions at the bottom of page 28 there's it says justification

[00:15:00]
826 - full equation liquidated by 6:30 2025 LG Board of Education 82625 and then under compliance with sections 10 - 15 - 1 and 22 Dash 8 dash 12 and MSA 1978 compilation the B references explanation such as under budgeted and insufficient budget I'm assuming that we're good that is just a well why is that there this doesn't apply to us right we don't have any particular part that's probably the most common is is to do that but

[00:16:00]
in our case we're just bringing this for to the board for approval showing that we have depleted the funds we did receive it and I hope that okay so we haven't we haven't we haven't had a finding or or were out of line it's just stating that we've depleted and we're following rules okay thank you thank you any other questions okay thank you for that are we will now consider approval for the July 2025 winter function transfers for Grant budget and our presenter for this is Miss Montoya go ahead hey Madam members of the community in trees

[00:17:00]
and these are just routine beginning of the year Corrections for the current fiscal year thank you members of the committee any questions so it's really hard to I've said this before here and I've said it at nmsba it's really hard to know how to be a responsible how to execute the responsibilities of being a board member when we get reports of information and and it's so so I did some digging and came up with these questions or rather responsibilities my job is to confirm that transfers don't shift funds away from he needs students and I guess that's the question that's one question

[00:18:00]
play 15 friends away from I need students because I can't tell from this kind of a the report as written and then the other is ensure program serving Native American tribes Spanish-speaking families LOL students and students with disabilities remain fully supported and and that these all somehow tie back to go to our goals and our guard rails to add into the auction memo and explanation of what

[00:19:00]
intra function is more in non-finance terms so if you look at the agenda item one of the things that we put on there is that they don't change the total budget but they shift funds to where they're needed the most so a lot of times these budgets are created like in February March and then now months later we're using them for our students that are in the classrooms so I think to your point there may be needs for special education or yes students that the principals have identified so their shifting to where they needed the most and I think coupled with that is that there's internal procedures for it that

[00:20:00]
Greek Fire signatures of Supervisors and so as the leaders have to sign off that it's an appropriate transfer of inner function that's where that level of detail comes as far as making sure that the department signature person is making sure that the reason for the transfer matches what are needs are the allocation that we approved in the first place is that okay and within that just mentioning that we also have to include which goal it's deals with so okay and so again you know it's it's I have to ask because I don't

[00:21:00]
just getting this information I guess it would be helpful just to say you know we are following the the approved budget except by the board and etcetera and nothing has nothing has changed really other than were spending the money the way we said we were going to spend the money and and just a point of clarification about why why does Van Buren and I'm not complaining really I love that why is the only school that appears here was it expensive on page 33 good morning Madam chair members of the boards

[00:22:00]
so specific to agenda item 5.3 that's a cleanup for Van Buren I don't want to jump ahead of the board but I will see if you go to 5.4 there are multiple schools and that's the difference between the inter function and the intra function transfer that was alluded to earlier so the actual movement of funds where where it's needed the most that affects multiple schools in the overall package of today's agenda board member Dominguez if I may want to jump like that to give you a bigger picture and Assurance on the budget transfers we start the year with the budget as approved by The Grand Tour in this case PD aligned exactly with the application and then any changes that we complete to the application we bring in front of you for approvals they might be

[00:23:00]
it because they might be in the same function and be intra function or between functions and that's that are currently transfer but all the changes starting from that point on are being brought to you for review and approval and all the justifications for the changes we try to align them directly to the goals so you understand what is Shifting and why I guess it's the the problem we come from when I hear the changes that are all changes are brought to the board and so it implies that there's a change to previously been agreed to I'm getting the sense that that's not the case it's more of a shift of funds or yes if we take the example of them for example we see that they were planning professional development but

[00:24:00]
the assessment Analyze That a better use for the funding is a math teacher and that is what you're seeing into our changes the negative and professional development and a positive in the position of a teacher and we provide you the explanation of funding for math teacher salary in their enrollment

[00:25:00]
numbers like they may have thought you know last year we had a lot of Need for bilingual or and they can just shift a little bit of as they know their current school year needs so and that's hard to really project I mean you can project someone but it's hard to be exact back in February or March or April when you're wearing these budgets so when as we get into the school year it's easier to start making those shifts and that's why you see so many moves cuz a lot of times people feel more comfortable like putting it in one bucket and then readjusting as needed or they know you know my kids tend to be the same and they know exactly where to put it so that's why you see so many of these adjustments and it's not that we were just trying to find the budget and that's just what happens throughout the year but you touch on

[00:26:00]
important point right in terms of goals good decision to go from PD which I see more as a guardrail to to very deliberate goal to there is a there's a need there at Van Buren and I imagine there's that explains why 5.4 is that interesting yes yes this is good for me in terms of program thank you thank you thank you any other questions related to enter

[00:27:00]
play I seen on we will go ahead and continue our next item is to consider approval of July 2025 intra function transfers for Grant budget and I will give it back to you Miss Montoya thank you madam chair members of the committee superintendent Blakey so I bring for consideration approval the intro function transfers for Grant budget for the first section of the final end of your entries are necessary to close the fiscal year for Grants and they were completed in July against the prior FY 2425 budget and beginning of the year Corrections for this current fiscal year along with budget movement of title to through four grants into holding accounts due to the federal freeze then due to the

[00:28:00]
play the way we will bring the reversion of these actions based on the unfreeze notification in the next Finance agenda so there's lots of reasons for these these movements but at this point the budgets have been realigned for spending access thank you Miss Montoya go ahead board member Dominguez is there any chance that we could get a report that shows the the movement in terms of Grants and I imagine you mean like title is it Title One title are those considered grants or are we talking about something I don't want two three four speaking of here but yeah so anything that's in the interior function transfers for Grant budget those are all Grant funds and

[00:29:00]
and when I go into the non categorical funds then those are the operational funds so okay that we've been speaking to in these in this item and the prior item are all Grant related yeah and I see one of course is our largest expense is that the only one here is there you go I'm just trying to make this information a little more useful to us you know to talk in terms of shifts like do we see shifts happening because or changes happening mostly because of decreasing enrollments or increasing enrollment that was unexpected are these going to you know how much of this is going to PD how much

[00:30:00]
I'm going to like what happened at Van Buren to bury directly address the goals in terms of ftes I guess is what I'm getting out are you wanting the summary that they currently provide now is is that are you need further clarification on that the summary is the action report right this is what you're talking about the background I'm talking about we have all these Pages it would be useful to us to me as a board member to know where are these shifts are happening what's happening it would give us a better idea of what the movement is at the school level

[00:31:00]
what is the decisions being made what are the if I remember correctly the beginning of the year was always crazy because we had projected enrollment one way and then you know some schools get an influx of new enrollment and so they are they shifting their budget to more ftes where are we seeing this just in terms of understanding the app and flow of the district I think overall you know we do want to keep a level of autonomy for the schools to be able to utilize these funds and so there's you know they have their instructional councils that work on their budgets and things shift as

[00:32:00]
the year goes on just for a variety of reasons for different schools so from a high level there isn't you know the with federal funds particularly there isn't a lot of movement that we really want to micromanage in that sense with the schools because it's not an allocation from the district like operational how we're budgeting schools and we want to see like Oh wait we're really getting tight in middle school do we need to adjust our funding formula the use of these funds is a little bit different because of the way that they are allocated and because of the way the schools distribute it what we could do is you know as we start planning for the budget for next year is give more high level this is kind of where we're moving money because we've seen this as a high level of where schools tend to really fall short but

[00:33:00]
what schools do have autonomy in building their budget so even if we were to say we're going to give them more money for supplies that's something schools decide on their own how much money goes into supplies so it's this balance as we create the budget on the site base decision of it which is why we tend to support when when the principals submit this and when their leads sign off on budget transfers there is a tendency to support it because very few of them are ever denied with the justifications because it is site base so we do try to keep it that way and then maybe before we build the budget we can do an overview of this is where we saw the majority of the intro functions and intro functions being moved which also Draya knows this probably more than my answer to it but there is always shifts also in Personnel because when you use

[00:34:00]
federal funds for personnel somebody who left when you replace that person they could cost a different amount in your title funds and so you have to make adjustments there especially when money is used for personnel because not every person filling the position is the exact same amount and I wholeheartedly appreciate that explanation and I want to ensure or assure everyone here that my questions aren't about micromanaging they're really I'm trying to help us get the information we need to keep it at a high level so for example I've asked this in the past graphing Trends would do exactly what you just suggested Dr Blakey it would help us understand

[00:35:00]
movement right so that we can keep it high level and in the policy sector the goals in the guard rails so that's the intent of my question so yes graphing Trends would do would help me as a board member tremendously and I don't know maybe it would help my fellow committee members as well thank you members of the committee any other questions on this item okay I see none we will continue our next item is to consider approval of the July 2025 interfund transfers for all non categorical funds and I will turn this over to miss Montoya thank you madam chairs

[00:36:00]
this agenda item request the approval of 13 into function budget transfers in the operational fund totaling $407,000 6 of the 13th at risk funds one uses bilingual funds and the remaining six use General funds nightstand for questions thank you any questions related to this item okay I'm just passing making sure okay thank you we will continue so our next item is to consider approval of July 2025 intro function transfers for all non categorical funds and Miss Montoya turn it back over to you thank you madam chair this agenda item request your approval of interesting totaling 6.1 million dollars in operational funds 60,000

[00:37:00]
Transportation funds 1.2 million in food and nutrition services funds 214,000 in facility Enterprise funds and 19 million in capital funds and I stand for questions thank you Miss Montoya members of the committee any questions okay thank you so much our next item now is to continue approval of statement of budget adjustment decrease of 10 million 94,827 dollars and are presenter for this is Mr Ellison I will turn it over to you sir thank you thank you good morning Madam president members of the board superintendent I am presenting for your consideration the approval of a statement of our budget adjustment decrease of the 10 million and 94,827.00 to correct the New Mexico

[00:38:00]
SB 9 for fiscal year 2526 and I stand for questions thank you Mr Allison members of the committee any questions okay I seen it thank you sir our next item is to consider approval of gifts grants and donations for more than $5,000 our first is a grant of 15,000 to Highland High School from Davis New Mexico scholarships second is for 10,000 to Manzano High School from James Stevens and are presenter for this is Mr Turnbull you have the floor sir thank you madam chairman of the board super super acceptance of two donations 15,000 to Highland High School this is going to be used to pay for college and curriculum materials and SAT prep

[00:39:00]
and then we have a 10,000 donation to Manzano high school and this is to pay for items for at-risk students so with that I stand for questions thank you Mr Turnbull member there we go board member Dominguez go ahead is it possible to get an address for both of these donors for you okay thank you so much item is to consider approval of District purchase or expenditures at equal

[00:40:00]
this is for classroom manipulatives and I will turn this over to miss apodaca's our presenter thank you madam chair board members superintendent Blakey this item for approval is related to a bid that APS issued it is to establish a as needed contract so as schools or departments need classroom manipulatives they can use this contract not have to go through separate bidding or getting multiple quotes on this contract will be established up to 8 years and they estimate 3 million dollars using operational and Grandpa's great thank you so much I apologize

[00:41:00]
how are these vendors selected and I have a follow-up appointment this is a bid so this was actually selected on their submission this is a percentage off discount so what they do is they provide a discount off of price of a catalog price and then we actually try to award as many as we can because there's different needs and his manipulatives so we want to make sure that we have enough for the different type of items that could be purchased and that makes Financial sense of course right and I really appreciate that there were two vendors from

[00:42:00]
Albuquerque and one Regional I think touch math is Colorado and so that's good and because I'm also someone who likes to talk a lot about culturally linguistically relevant curriculum I think it's it's a challenge to find vendors who are local who are going to serve that need or even regionally to serve at need and I wonder if I'm hoping that that because we have two vendors from Albuquerque that the bidding process is conducive to small local businesses that way yes

[00:43:00]
as a matter of fact small businesses New Mexico business veteran business Native American Business they get like extra points within the procurement code so if they register through the state of New Mexico Taxation and Revenue for the resident business preference when we go through a bid or request for proposal they could get extra points because of that distinction right right right and it's a matter of yeah lending support and guidance to those smaller businesses who may not know how to do that yet so thank you know I was happy to see two vendors from Albuquerque and original one from Colorado weather thank you thank you

[00:44:00]
thank you any other questions related to this item okay I seen on we will continue our next item is to consider approval of District purchase or expenditures that equals or exceeds $500,000 this is for district telecommunications services in Mesopotamia and Mr Gonzalez hello good morning over to you good morning Madam chair members of the committee superintendent of approval for the purchase order that equals or exceeds 50000 for the purposes of District telecommunications services this process did abide by District procedural directive as well as I am doing this morning by Dr Richard Bowman technology officer should you have any questions

[00:45:00]
ready any questions on this item okay I seen it and thank you we will continue our next item is to consider approval of purchase of District purchase or expenditures at Eagles are exceeds 500,000 and this one is for bulk Fuel and Dr Gonzalez I'll turn it back over to you yes likewise Madam chair members of the community Dr Blakey we seek your approval for the purchase of an expenditure that equals or exceeds 500,000 District procedural directive and statement this morning by our assistant Deputy of operations John do you have any questions thank you Doctor Gonzalez members of the committee any questions okay thank you our next item is to consider approval of District purchase or expenditures at equals or exceeds 500,000 dollars and this is for

[00:46:00]
police radio dispatch equipment and Dr Gonzalez over to you sir Madam chair members of the committee Dr Blakey we do Stanford seeking your approval for an expenditure that equals or exceeds 500,000 for police radio dispatch equipment this process did abide by District procedural directive and state procurement code we seek your approval stand for your questions right thank you board member Dominguez your question did you just elucidate with this is going to help our Police Department yes I am joined by our chief technology officer on Dr Bowman who can elaborate on that for us Dr Bowman yes thank you very much Dr Gonzalez thank you for your question this purchase will enable us

[00:47:00]
to connect to our radios to the state and the city and the county radio systems and it will enable us to Italy enable our dispatchers to be able to override the radio waves to make sure that messages in an emergency are able to be sent appropriately right now the dispatchers share the same radio radio waves I guess they share the same radio waves as everyone else and so they experienced some challenges in emergency right now this will help us give them kind of a priority key so their messages get out and did you say this includes I heard city and state does it include County yes all of the all of the public safety yes thank you yeah

[00:48:00]
great thank you you're welcome our next item is to consider approval of July 2025 cash disbursements and are presented for this is Miss Apodaca over to him thank you madam super Super Bowl scoreboard for approval and entry into the minutes this meets those requirements I also wanted to bring to your attention in the supporting documents something that we started

[00:49:00]
if you go to the very very last page we started adding our payroll disbursements because as you know in the district almost 90% is fdes and payroll so I thought that would be very important for the public to see and the board members so we're going to start adding those and also doing a graph so you can see as it as a proceeds in the year how much the payroll amounts are so for July 2025 you can see that our payroll is 59 million and that's it thank you very much to get that payroll

[00:50:00]
category because again we've heard so many times that our budget people say it's inflated but not realizing that most of it is going to staff going to payroll going to the workforce and I thank you for including that for being intentional with that line item board member Dominguez go ahead I'm sorry what page number did you say that line item was found it's going to be the very last page of all that justification out here on my screen I see it as page 35 but I'm not sure if that's the same page number for you in the 100s to 725 and I'm still trying to I'm struggling to find the line item if you look at the final summary at the back with all the

[00:51:00]
play different categories you'll see that they included an additional line that says payroll so you're talking about the no it's not on my summary July and of the cash disbursements page the very last page of that I'll figure it out later I don't want to hold this up because I do have a few questions but I agree that the public needs to know that most of our money goes to ftes and Anderson we don't need less money we need more money because everyone is clamoring for smaller classes parents are and so our teachers what another piece of coffee

[00:52:00]
correction services in construction services non-capital in the summary under expense categories were looking at what 6 million there in July alone and so if I understand this correctly the 4 million 600,000 come out of capital and then the one million 600,000 is non-capital is that correct am I reading that correctly but I can double check that for you and so on that topic I know we shifted strategies this year probably a good idea to keep the HVAC units going over the summer to to make adjustments

[00:53:00]
before school started and in the hopes that classrooms would be a little more tolerable in terms of their temperature should we have a breakdown of like who are the vendors that we work with and what the total amount that we're spending on HVAC and who gets who gets what amount and board member Dominguez I know they have provided this I want to just make sure we stay on track for exactly what we have listed here for the cash disbursements and I know doctor Gonzalez did provide a summary to all of us specifically on what was happening regarding HVAC units so we could if you want him to resend that out to you we can but I don't think that summary had what I'm asking for so I don't understand

[00:54:00]
the vendors have been provided at previous Finance meetings because all of that does need to be approved anytime we have the RFP and that has been included but if you need that again we can ensure that you get that so I would say if you can put that question in writing to the finance team yeah yes thank you have any other course any other questions related to cash disbursements okay thank you so I will continue so our next item now is to consider recommending consent agenda border approval for items to discuss during the August 27th 2025 finance committee meeting these include fiscal year 2017 budget calendars for Grant budget July and transfers for Allen of budget adjustment decrease give grants

[00:55:00]
in donations District purchase or expenditures that equals or exceeds 500,000 including classroom manipulatives District telecommunications Services bulk feel police radio dispatch equipment and finally July 2025 cash disbursements may I have a motion please remove that we add to the agenda for board approval of all items discussed during August I'm sorry am I on the right place August 27th 2025 finance committee meeting and I'll second this is board member benavidez thank you have a roll call please have the Benavides yes

[00:56:00]
Ronaldo Tom burrito yes Crystal Tapia Romero yes thank you so our next finance committee meeting will be Wednesday September 24th 2025 at 8 a.m. virtually or you can watch on the aps Board of Education YouTube channel and with that being said this meeting is adjourned have a great day everyone bye
