Title: Policy Committee Meeting 9-18-2023
Video ID: RW0f4HjxVHQ
==================================================

[00:00:00]
3211 period September 18th 2023 policy committee meeting agenda for approval of the September 18th 2023 policy committee meeting agenda and do we have a second this is Courtney we have

[00:01:00]
ocean from board president Montoya cordovan a second from Member Jackson and to note for the record that member Peterson has joined Ms King may we have a roll call vote please Yolanda Monterey California of minutes from the policy committee meeting of August 7th 2023 do we have a motion for approval almost for approval of the minutes for the policy committee meeting on August 7th 2023 thank you and a second we have a roll call vote please tell me about yes Brittany Jackson yes Daniel Gonzalez yes moving on to our discussion items we are on item 4.

[00:02:00]
turn on the agenda and our first discussion item is our budget policy draft review for this agenda item we have to presenters Opelika who's our chief financial officer and Miss Jessica Martinez who is our policy analyst and I will turn the floor over to you too thank you madam chair good evening members of the board superintendent Elder tonight the committee will review a draft of the budget policy that has been developed at the boards request the Chief Financial Officer has worked with staff to develop a budget policy that will establish a framework for developing and managing the aps budget the proposed budget policy also looks at the role of the finance committee budget updates and financial reports this is a discussion item in the committee will review the draft and make recommendations Chief Financial Officer brunette is here to tell you a little bit more about the development of the budget policy thank you so much so earlier this year the board approved a sample budget policy and

[00:03:00]
so what we did is we took the sample policy we looked at districts and the Council of great City schools and we looked at this this big old Manual of procedures public school and we worked on putting together this budget that aligned to the goals and the guard rails and the distribution of resources so we stand for any questions thank you so just to reiterate this is an initial discussion this is a review draft only so we started pretty high level around the concepts so we want included in a potential policy so we're going to have a discussion and hopefully get those revisions those Provisions will be made and then the policy will come for first review and 1st Street in a subsequent policy committee meeting there will be opportunity for public input followed by a second read and a vote of the policy committee

[00:04:00]
before it goes to the full board on the consent agenda so plenty of opportunity to continue to review revised edit contribute and also seek feedback from the community so with that in mind that this is draughty drafty draft version I would like to open the floor to any areas of feedback for our to presenters and for the policy board member go ahead sorry did I speak over somebody that's okay go ahead remember your room thank you so I had a question I just wanted to get clarification on the finance committee where it talks about that the board will appoint at least two members as a finance subcommittee is so is this an addition is this like the new committee were establishing that we're having that next meeting that's coming up in a couple weeks so this is kind of placeholder language until the ad hoc Finance review

[00:05:00]
Meats to determine what actually fits in here so I think the answer is kind of yes and no whatever that committee decides will become what is in here okay that's all that was my only question on that particular area so would we can continue to still have where I currently chair will now be like a dual role I think that would be determined I think when we have our ad hoc I'm sorry for jumping in this is so I think remember when we have the ad hoc committee that's meeting this Wednesday what's great is that we have this draft language to kind of guide us a little bit in terms of that I think it's a it's a good first step it doesn't necessarily mean that's how it's going to play out but I think it's given us some options to think about so I I I was like you I kind of had a question mark on my face around what does this mean with the committee

[00:06:00]
bitch but I think we still have an opportunity to to wrestle with it to figure out what's going to work best for us and personally I'm all in favor of you know what if we add more do it's needed I just just for clarification on my end I want to make sure I'm on the same page so thank you thank you and I think it was just I wanted to just express some gratitude because I think it's really important for us to have this policy so thank you chair Gonzalez for bringing this up and I know that she had pushed for a budget policy and it makes a lot of sense for us to have it because I don't think we've ever had anything that guides us around the work that we're doing around budget so I thought it was really good I think there's definitely some areas that we just have to wrestle with a little bit because one of the ones that I struggled was on the budget management and I think it's just timing because the last paragraph on there where it says the

[00:07:00]
superintendent or designate will present I put a red mark around mine and now I can't read it will present the summary of cash disbursements and the only thing I was worried about that is like it's always after the fact and so I was just concerned but I think when we go into our ad hoc meeting I know one of the things that I was going to say it's like put yourselves in our shoes as board members is like how do we wrestle with the what are responsibilities are you know what do we do before what do we do after it's so the timing I think was one of the issues that I had on that and then on the next part on the budgeting approach the only thing that I was really wrestling with was the sentence for it says right after College and Career Readiness and it's guard rail requiring Equitable resource allocation and I mean I know we I just want to make sure that we have some really good

[00:08:00]
agreement on what the word Equitable means there too so it's I thought it was well done I think it's it's there but it just something just was still a little bit of Miss for me but I think we can clarify that in the ad hoc but I thought it was great you did a great job of capturing I think the essence of all the key work that we have to do and you know I look forward to the meeting on Wednesday both of you thank you for finding the flagging the connection to the ad hoc finance committee because part of what that is all so discussing is what happens in committee what happens in board what can happen by consent and what is required by law to happen in those various settings versus not which also has implications for what's required in the reporting so some of the bullets that are listed here may also change so the law may require that we are the law May indicate that we are required to see that receive that information on a monthly basis and review it that doesn't necessarily mean we have to discuss it in a full

[00:09:00]
so as we get into those details some of the bullets that are on page 3 may also evolve but appreciate both of you flagging that and are there other comments or questions so I mean I so this is going to be a board policy so it's sitting with the board is that correct okay so what in writing and writing this then I know you were part of putting this all together for the board correct okay okay okay I just wanted to just clarify that the other thing and I too had have flagged about adding that sub you know subcommittee just kind of adding more committees and more time

[00:10:00]
I know it's only going to be a few people but that was just a concern to me since we're supposed to be making things go quicker not have as many meetings so that was a concerned then I also had the a concern as Madam president did when it came to you know the student base budgeting that I know we're not going to until 2026 when it just says greatest hits with the greatest needs and so I just want to make sure the greatest needs in one school are going to be different than the greatest needs in from one school to another school so it's like how are you going to Define what grade is needs is what is that really and I understand there's going to end up being a formula Etc how to do it but I want to make sure greatest needs really is about what the needs are at that school and

[00:11:00]
SES background and I just want to make sure greatest needs really is focusing on all the kids and what their needs are so that was just I don't know if there's a different way to to maybe phrase that and then another really another question that I had is on on the first page on the bottom paragraph when it says I think it's a second to the last sentence maybe or the third to the last sentence it says the board will not approve an operating budget that fails to demonstrate the community and put with solicited so I understand that we are going to get community and put and that's something that we want to do but we can't we can't not not approve a budget I don't know how else to to say that but we can't not approve a budget we already have it in our guard rails so we're going to

[00:12:00]
do that that's a non-negotiable but when we write the board will not not approve I just don't know if that's the best thing to have in there cuz we have no choice but to approve a budget or else the school district and functions yeah I just kind of say that we can't not approve one you know and I understand that Community input and it has that in there but something we don't not know that something might happen and that for some reason something happens and we couldn't get that input for whatever reason and it's right when we're about ready to approve a budget

[00:13:00]
that's scary to me so Madam chair remember the language is just to ensure that the public has an opportunity to review what we're doing so we can certainly look at the language for something a little less cumbersome okay that one is the one that kind of was like oh okay and then the other one then I and I'm sure I'm totally misunderstanding this one on the budget Management on the third paragraph where it says on the second sentence in the third paragraph the the board made only vote on funding which I understand and not vendor selection so this just speaks to the fact that the boards going to vote not that we can't be part of an RFP selection committee because we obviously board members have been on them so technically you are choosing one whenever we have an I know that sell them happens but it has happened

[00:14:00]
what time is in the last year so I don't know I think we just need to make a distinction between board services and board and District Operations I think what this is saying is that we are not going to be voting we're going to be voting on funding but not on vendor selection for District Operations and it's the board is a hole and it is the board that we made numbers if we could just like clarify that and then the only let me see if that's all when it comes to the bullets on the last page how is this different from current practice like is that basically a lot of what currently happens that's it thank you have a question sort of more

[00:15:00]
actually it may be the same question that board member Miller had gone had except I'm coming at it from the other other perspective in terms of what Equity means and I mean I certainly agree that for in a perfect example is El Dorado may not seem like the highest need School in the district and just when they were having a crisis with suicides and mental health the district address that by you know putting the resources in place to develop the wellness room in the things that they needed so I think that we're not saying that we don't address that we don't have an obligation to address particular needs at particular time and it certainly is in line with golf 4 but I think if we go back to the goals and look at gold one and go to

[00:16:00]
that that actually in fact does guide us because if our if our role is an outcomes we know that there are groups of students who don't have equal outcomes and the consequently they need equity-based resources rather than equal resources so in one of the big discussions that's happened in the past around Title One money for instance and whether specific whether you should look at the title one budget and divide it up by this school has 1% of the title one money or it gets 1% of the money and this school has

[00:17:00]
so it's the issue comes with where's the biggest impact what it comes down to is how do schools make impact and sometimes it's not student by student sometimes it's an investment in the the school as a whole to be able to make decisions like with an extra classroom teacher or whatever what the portability issue did was sometimes diffuse the ability to really invest in meaningful ways with high number of how do we achieve that in a meaningful way and an example is

[00:18:00]
there may be three I'll make up a number there might be 20 Title 1 students at a particular school where overwhelmingly there's not the same level of financial need and what that does is those still those students still receive the benefit of a community that can provide for more for that school and it comes up and things like the activities fund the PTA how many field trips can get financed in so those 10 students scattered throughout the school receive the benefits of being in a much more fluent Community whereas other schools the PTA will never raise enough money to have multiple field trips for every classroom and so the decision of

[00:19:00]
being able to put more money in a particular school isn't doesn't end up with impact that affects those 10 students in the same way that it would affect the whole school Community where those resources reduced and so I just think that I mean it is a philosophical question and I do not know that we have a unified board I have no idea if we were to vote on that I have no idea how the vote would come out but I think that it's something that we need to look at and consider as we have this conversation about what really really mean when we look at resources directed to school so that's that's more attention

[00:20:00]
the prior sentence with the district will shift to student-based budgeting and then it defines it which is a system where dollars follow students based on needs using objective measurable and weighted characteristics so I think that's what we're trying to get out and it is a it's a there's a there's a formula that exists is helping with the state already has and so I think maybe it's just around reiterating the formula and using words like I don't know pre-defined or determined or something I don't but technology that there is a somewhat of a definition in here already okay so the next one goes back to the finance committee I mean we we all have been elected to have a certain by constituents who expect us to have a certain

[00:21:00]
in in overseeing the district's finances and I think on this one I definitely agree with board member Miller out of God that we would have the same obligation to raise the same questions whether we were on the subcommittee or whether we are just sitting on the board so then my question is do we actually say I mean I think it goes her concerns does it actually save any time for two people to go through this when it's going to come back and we need to have the same conversation as a whole I think we have absolutely made progress by having the head of time I think we have some very helpful meaningful new policies are procedures in place to help with that I'm just not sure if it's personal

[00:22:00]
because anything substantial it still got to come to the board so this is just placeholder language so it could say six person number so I think it really is dependent upon what comes out of this ad hoc committee that remember top your Romero is cheering so I think maybe we can go into that meeting with some proposed values statements around how do we develop a process where in each member is able to maintain the responsibility to their constituents to review financial data and etcetera as we all try to improve the efficiency but we do have a good charge given to that committee by the board president already so I think it's just noting that these are additional questions ought to be discussed during that committee so who is on that committee myself board member copy Romero's the chair

[00:23:00]
along with the finance department with renette and Jessica and we're going to be answering any questions around legislatively what's required of us so looking at the statutes on what's required cuz I know Mr Melendez is taking a deep dive on that as well and we're going to still come back with recommendations in terms of what we're studying and what we're looking at will come with recommendations on ways that we can because remember it's it's back to the issue what song consent what's not how do we do that and then some of the other issues are we are we actually looking at a lot of administrative things that we really shouldn't be looking at or don't really need to have that really just don't give us a whole lot of information about finances to Heart Barbara the conversation that was had at nmsba I thought that that

[00:24:00]
Johanna was there as well the presentation on finances was really helpful because she really did iterate for me the things that I cannot as a board member been on here for 6 years I still am not comfortable with but it was really around things especially around forecasting it's really around Trends and looking at those ways and also how do we present information to the board that's transparent enough for us to also make sense of worth things are because right now the way that we look at them in a PDF form sometimes it's not easy it's not easy to I'm not sure what we're Discerning from it other than that there's a line item here's where expenditure was I think we need to ask the deeper questions and that's what this three-member committee is going to do is an opportunity for us to just take a look at that and really just sort of tackle the the issue of what should we be doing on finances we'll be getting coaching as we're doing this as well so that we're making sure that we're

[00:25:00]
true to Our obligation and our responsibility I think because we have a huge responsibility around finances but I think it's really complex in terms of what what we've been putting before us now and how we look at it I'm not sure that it really I'm not sure that it's really helping us a whole lot sometimes so I think that I think that kind of subcommittee is completely reasonable and it also helped us synthesize through what we need to discuss so and I think the committee's on policy have been really useful because it serves as the month by month and so I think that the thought about what the final finance committee should look like

[00:26:00]
it's very different for that I'm going monthly committee than it is for these committees that are taking on your specific tasks and you're absolutely correct that's exactly what this is this is just an ad hoc kind of work group for us to roll up my shirt sleeves kind of look at it and make some recommendations to the board based on just how we've been operating right now around Finance so ways that we can improve the way that we're looking at finances and the work of the board so I think it's okay it's not replacing the finance committee at all this is not replacing this is simply a work group and I think as board member Gonzalez is mentioned in this particular policy it's just a placeholder it's a thought I think we're hearing voices about that that's not so great you know but but will we can like that one and we'll wrestle with it as part of the committee and oh

[00:27:00]
I did send in my questions for the finance committee and one of them was to follow up on Audrey jaramillo's recommendation for have to look at cash disbursements that it makes more sense okay so that's just a little bit okay thank you and I'm trying to be mindful to make sure my questions are technical versus tactical and following you know our process so the question I had on page two is it looks like it's changed on the amount to 500,000 vs 250,000 on approval for expenditure is that correct yes that's correct and just thinking about inflation looking at other districts and then and then also bringing to you like you said that you really

[00:28:00]
need to look at and maybe not look at like consumables like Fuel and janitorial and paper you know stuff like that better under this and then just look at the the more larger purchases for the district and personally I like that cuz there's some things that we can't change this is how it is and you know these are expenses that we can continue that we have to have as a district my second question is I didn't know if there had to be some type of language or if it's just wrapped up in the budget that we have there when we have extra funding like the extra funding you know the way that has to be allocated or spent or if that's just in here that if it's over a certain amount it would come to the board for approval and that would be like

[00:29:00]
those are all my questions thank you thank you remember Jackson while being last everybody asked my questions mine was the 500,000 thank you so I think just a couple things popped into my head as we were talking to specifically around the community input section if that is something that is in that big old book right there one thing that I was thinking of and we as a board can discuss this is if that is maybe something that we add into the community engagement sessions that if it is kind of a requirement then maybe we build into those sessions that one of the one of the session is purely on budget and that's where we gather feedback and you guys would have to tell us when that best time would be I don't know if it would be January February whatever

[00:30:00]
but that's just a thought is that if that is really something that is important then I think we can work our way into getting Community like and Meaty Community input not just replying to a survey so so that was one thought I had the the other I think I think I just think the other thing is is that I just want to ditto what board member Mueller Aragon said around make sure that we're supporting students based on their needs and you know again because different different students that different schools are going to have different needs and to make sure that no matter where you end up you know wherever you happen to be wherever you happen to live and that's the school you happen to go to that your needs are being met so I will Echo what she said and oh and then the third thing that I actually I really like and I appreciate

[00:31:00]
are you putting in is a very specific statement about it being that the board is approving funding and not the vendor and that's because I had that question earlier a couple months ago and so I appreciate that it's in there because I think what that does is that really brings transparency again to the public what is it that the board is doing and what is it that the administration is deciding and so I think that's a very good addition to the policy and I like the statement around budgeting approach and not only that but again putting in and writing and saying this is what we are going to do just again like solidifies I I noticed like if I tell somebody that I'm going to do something it's kind of easy for me like oh well you just forgot but if I write it to them and say I promise that I will do this on a certain time then it's more Hefty and waited so I appreciate that it's in there and I think it's a good policy and I appreciate your work on it

[00:32:00]
pictures of 1111 one other question that I forgot about so when it comes to the final final budget not the draft budget but the final budget it is totally not amendable and is that like written down somewhere where it's not amendable Madam chairman it's a board policy if the board decides they would like to revisit and review it can be amended with the exception of course of things that are statutorily required but anything that applies to the boards Hands-On activities for the budget is amendable okay here it said they can only you can make changes to the draft budget but it didn't mention anything about the finals on on the policy here

[00:33:00]
Romance the very last on the first page says the board may vote to make changes to the draft budget but it doesn't mention anything about the final budget being amendable so I just I was just wondering if that is something that should be in there shouldn't be in there I don't know if it matters so there's a sexual budget development in terms of how the budget is developed once it's approved then we get to the next section on budget management so the second paragraph there once the budget is approved any request for modification of a budgetary line item will be approved by appropriate that section talks about what happens and that the board must approve the allocation of funds so it's in the it's in the next part I get that part because that's something that we I know that we do once it's already approved I'm just talking about before that just in the in the budget development because you come up with the draft budget but then you come up with the final budget right right

[00:34:00]
I guess I'm going to push on a little bit final draft of the budget comes to you really really at the end of a very long process you should not be making changes to the budget at that point oftentimes and you run into this with us before we be like we have to turn it in a statutorily we have to turn it in and we've we've had multiple iterations of this budget we run it past you for a number of times I mean I don't know that you can write it in your policy I can't do it right your policy but I would strongly recommend you not be making it to the final budget because that is really almost impossible logistically to beat both the statutory obligations and just the physical limitations of a budget Department

[00:35:00]
I think it's a great question I think it's something you probably want to Define in your policy when and I just would hate to see that you know I don't know how to limit you but I think you are limited by reality you know so there's that the other thing is in this community input on the budget I would ask that you sort of Define what you think that is and I heard substantive and that's that's good but we need to remember we go out and we show that every school budget to every school community and they all give them to the school site the School site gets to make some adjustments based on what they're hearing when we put the entire budget in front of the community they often have great ideas real interesting thoughts on how to spend the money I can spend somebody else's money really well but with their that they don't realize and we can't often explain is one how much of the operational budget is tied up in salary and how limited we are I mean we gave you the chart a few months ago of the 100 million dollars in new money and then we really had a big 5 million dollars we could do anything with because

[00:36:00]
already been spent by the time I got to us right so that's a limiting factor it's hard to explain and again The Story Goes Down to the ERS my thought on the IRS money is what they're hoping to do is flex out some more discretionary money at the school site so sites can make decisions and you talk about Equitable decisions they're making sites the local level instead of Us coming up on top and saying what you're going to spend it on this and that's where the change will occur when you talk about Community but I think you need to Define what you mean by that because we do take Community input and we do put the budget but that has a place in that level of work that you can consider as you know I guess I would add is that it would make sense that if that is their best opportunity as a community member to give input then perhaps what we need to be better

[00:37:00]
here's the best time for you to go and to give input so that it's not just it's not just the roll up cuz I agree with you superintendent the roll-up is very confusing cuz it's huge and it doesn't it lacks that connection to their school and to their community so perhaps what we just need to be better at is just making sure that that we're honest or that we're transparent with the community or saying hey this is your shot this is your best opportunity to really give feedback and so maybe it's really supporting our schools and that school community in a way so that they can be really good at that too because I think that's all so the hardest part it's like how do they get community input and how do they manage that community and put when it comes up at them I think they're sorry I think there's an explanation part to it too I think the budget to your point

[00:38:00]
so massive and and really nobody understands how it's how it's put together so I do think that there is definitely some benefit to just an explanation and maybe an excellent an explanation every year this is this is how the budget was built because and but us going to them right you can tune in all you want to the board meetings but us going out to them and explaining how it occurred I think that's fair with that in mind on page one the as part of the budget process the superintendent and does it means first sentence there's a list with the kind of list out some of the ways that we might gather Community feedback such as in person or virtual hearings online surveys surveys comma at the school site or at school site or something like that and then in a user-friendly format or something or easy to understand

[00:39:00]
what do not mean just like 88 accessible but like I know what you mean but okay so my comments were also on page one in the list of what's going to be included in the budget updates I was hoping we can add either projections and forecasts because I think that's implied when we're talking about revenues and costs but to be clear that we're and you're already doing this but the best of our ability we're projecting what anticipated revenue is and we're projecting what anticipated costs are we say significant issues related to changes that just feels a little Broad and then similarly on page three in the financial reporting

[00:40:00]
I would be helpful to see projections or forecast in here as well and so I'm not sure which section it belongs in but as we get reports whenever we know something about projections I think having that in that column is included or it would help similarly in the financial reports section it would be helpful to have language around alignment to goals and strategic plan and again you're already beginning to do this in the PowerPoint presentation when you show us how the budget was allocated by different goals and so I think just indicating that you're going to continue to do that and as we get better and Tighter with that I think that's going to help and then the last thing for me that was in the model policy which I don't know never mind it's here front of my face second bullet in the second section okay any other comments questions

[00:41:00]
suggestions on the not yet a policy but a drafty draft first draft of what will become a policy that a legal term draft all right we will move on thank you we will move on to agenda item 4.22 so this is a pretty chunky piece of the agenda and so we're going to take it in chunks we are going to start with the guard rails and so we did have a board work session last week on September 13th and the notes have been provided so they are printed out in front of us on the post Workshop coaching memo and there's a little red top which will point you to those draft guard rails and so in terms of our order for today we're going to first to go through the guard rails

[00:42:00]
because we want to continue to edit and refine those and get them better so that we can vote on them during the next policy committee meeting which is October 2nd so we're going to actually review them and revise them in this meeting so that they can come before you again when you receive your packet for the policy committee meeting that is October 2nd ideally we vote on October 2nd and those become our guardrails those then get placed into the governance manual replacing the code of ethics which is currently there and so for this meeting after we review the guardrails will next go to reviewing the code of ethics we'll talk about that as it relates to the conflict of interest and then we will also just talk about the government and spaniel overall the goal again is to also vote on the government's manual so we'll be voting on the Guardians will be voting on The governance manual as a whole and then subsequently as we need to make

[00:43:00]
any updates to the policies will make sure that those are voted on as legally required as well and part of that's going to come in agenda item the next agenda item 4.3 the policy review where we'll go over that process as well so right now I would encourage you to take a minute to read through those draft policies that are on the little red table and I'm also going to project them on the screen so you have them in front of you in hard copy they're on the screen without all of the other notes from the meeting but still the questions that were proposed by our coach which you can see in front of you in your notes are also on the screen here so I'm going to get a couple of minutes review your hard copy make your notes and then we're going to go through

[00:44:00]
another one and live edit them as you're reviewing I just want to call out in the hard paper copy that you have one and two for the purpose of this discussion I combined them and what you see in front of you is number one so that's why there's one last any questions about that the process questions about process then we're taking just 2 minutes and Crystal has these yes yes yes yes yes yes okay good yes so we're reviewing the draft car sales

[00:45:00]
[Could not understand audio]

[00:46:00]
[Could not understand audio]

[00:47:00]
are we ready the reverse of that is anyone not ready

[00:48:00]
also I forgot to mention at our seats and Crystal we received this an email as well is the evaluating governing policies document and so we are going to use this as our framework for how we evaluate these governance policies and so on page 4 they're not numbered but if you turn to the fourth page it's Section 3 guidance on common high priority governing policies about Midway through the page there's boards guard rails for the board these are specific operational actions or class of actions the board places on itself and its members to support behaviors that keep the boards focused on board work aligned with the vision and goals and grounded in Community Values so there are four guiding questions that will guide us through this process the first one what roadblocks currently exists that prevent

[00:49:00]
order from focusing on student outcomes and so for the purpose of the minutes transparency and just public awareness this is the item that we discussed in the September 13th work session so the board work through a conversation around what gets in the way of us focusing on student outcomes and what of our own behaviors that we can control gets in the way of allowing the board to focus on student outcomes so we had a very generative conversation on that first question certainly we can continue to bring up additional roadblocks during this meeting as well so thinking about that as one of the governing one of the guiding questions the second what kind of limitations can be put in place to set expectations of board behavior that is aligned with the community's values so again limitations that can be put in place to set expectations for our Behavior the third what kind of limitations will help board members stay in their Lane and not micromanage the school system

[00:50:00]
and the fourth are guard rails for the board being considered as a means to promote teamwork and trust versus policing or controlling individuals so as we move the through these other sort of the that's a literal guidance on evaluating our government's policies so we are going to start with the first and second which are individual board members shall not make assumptions about each other's intentions or shall not assume ill intent of each other some of the feedback that we received is for us to clarify how will we know if this thing is being honored and maybe change to act on because everyone will make assumptions so I'm opening up the floor to edits feedback suggestions and as much as possible not wordsmithing and copy editing and commas any feedback on this first one

[00:51:00]
well I think I think this first one I mean this one gets to the heart of the conversation that we had on September 13th and it definitely discusses the the trust which is is in that fourth bullet about our guard rails being considered as a means to promote teamwork and trust and I think that this of all of them that are presented right now is the one that speaks the most to that I think I would agree I just threw reading through this coaching I do like the act on recommendation but I think yeah I think this is one to kind of gets to the trust issue wonderful other feedback or suggestions I remember talking about I can't see if you're raising

[00:52:00]
no I don't have any thank you though thank you mad I'm sure the only thing I would ask is how would you how would you know someone was acting on their assumptions how do you truly know that sometimes we just it's a perception sometimes but how are we going to really know that they are that one of us might be acting upon our assumptions cuz we all make them so what do you think I mean what do you I I really don't know I honestly don't know how because we're obviously we all said we're all going to make assumptions because we just make assumptions about people almost the minute we need somebody so how do you get trained to not act on the assumptions that you know you made

[00:53:00]
can I jump in their board member Gonzalez please here's what it reminds me of like with that particular question and I think those of us who've been teachers like and when we've done observations in classrooms and we're having to do make an unbiased and make sure that we're objective so I would assume that we would you know want to make sure that it's factual that there's you know I guess activities are actions that can back up the belief not just Based On A Feeling or a thought and same thing with our observations and when we've done like portfolio samples in classrooms we want to make sure that we're unbiased and we can actually support it by an activity that a student did you know to show that they are capable of mastering a particular subject or an item so that's how I'm relaying it you know for us for ourselves is just making sure we're unbiased and we remain objective

[00:54:00]
is there a way that you think we might add some of that language around objectivity and unbiased to the guardrail and that's an open question to everyone we also have our all of us have our biases that are that I think we learn to recognize but we still live with them and have them this is just a hard one like I really believe this is really important I think it's a hard one for us to be able to be accountable to each other I think it's this is important it's like how are you going to be accountable and how you are going to know that this is happening I understand the factual was saying I think remember Jackson has a suggestion so I might have a suggestion you just said that so in the in the code of ethics as it stands right now number six is says accept responsibility and accountability for one's actions

[00:55:00]
that's in our current code of ethics so I almost wonder if those two can be combined in some way which then would pick individual board members shall not act on assumption about each other's intentions and will accept responsibility for their own actions and behaviors I wonder if that board member top your Romero does that kind of highlight maybe what you were saying yes you just said it a whole lot better because I found it in the documentary yes thank you the second proposed guardrail was board members on assumptions about each other's

[00:56:00]
intentions or assume will intent of each other and will accept responsibility for one's own actions and behaviors or Let It Go or something else I like the Edition that board member Jackson and

[00:57:00]
not appearing to perform the job of the superintendent so remember Peterson would you like to start us off with proposed edits about just tracing it as well not spend less than 50% of time on issues not related to student outcomes and required for work or there might be another word other than required totally responsible for I think if you just State the 50% on student outcomes that you know we will not spend less than 50% I mean at assumes that the other 50% is just started work there's other things that we have to do yeah yeah so is it if I cut back

[00:58:00]
members will not spend less than 50% of board time on his shoes not related to work know I was thinking 50% will not spend less than 50% of board time on issues not really in the current document where I just inserted just sosg standard language it says board members will will not invest less than 50% of its time each month into monitoring student outcome goals so that kind of gets to the student outcome goals aspect of it but

[00:59:00]
I think what this one was actually trying to address was spending our time doing board work and I think this was more getting to an efficiency about appearing to perform the job of the superintendent remember when I think you were helping us clarify two the board members will not spend less than 50% of 4 time on issues and now I'm sorry I'm just struggling with it because I'm not yeah and and I think the 50% time I mean I think it's just that board members will not spend more time on issues not religious student outcomes or you know because I was thinking we're not going to spend any

[01:00:00]
time we're going to have to spend some of our time outside of student outcomes because there are things that are required but I hear you what's the most important part and we're not going to be like trying to do the superintendent's job or something like that do we want to keep member Jackson's clarification on each month 50% of the time each month or more go back to 50% of its time period

[01:01:00]
not spend less than 50% of their time monitoring I think that's what Madam president had said about student outcome goals and you're not using the word board more than one members will not spend less than 50% of its time their time cuz do we want to just be our we concentrating right now and this is just a question we need to ask about the time we're monitoring the goals or are we just talking about not just monitoring well I think what Ashley is comma to make sure that we're not doing superintendent work

[01:02:00]
board members will not spend less than 50% of its time on board work and we could make it statutory required but yeah but then you're saying board members will not spend their time on issues not related to board work or do you want to cuz that's what we're supposed to be doing I think it helps to make it a little bit more creatively say almost anything since it has to do with them so they're benefits to doing that

[01:03:00]
there are reasons to not do it but that can be a fairly broad what is the teacher I can make almost anything worth doing fit into one of the standards and do it honestly and legitimately I mean I have a good reason for it and I think the purpose yeah the purpose of this guard rail is for us to stick to the Fidelity of sosg and so we are we are setting an intention in a guard wheel that we're not going to spend less of our time because board meeting start to this we really weren't doing that so I think it's the guardrail is really around the commitment to changing our agendas to include that monitoring piece that we're monitoring student outcomes I know you're trying to type and change things as we're saying but I have another

[01:04:00]
okay board members will not spend less than 50% of board time on issues not related to board work by delegating Authority for the administration of the schools to the superintendent which pools in Number 9 from our current code of ethics I delegating Authority for the administration of the schools to the superintendent so board members will not spend less than 50% of public meetings less than 50% of board authorized public meetings

[01:05:00]
buy delegating Authority for the administration to the of the schools to the superintendent so I think I think that maybe brings in the sosg 50% that were all trying to get those points for but also addresses what this is really meant to be is we need to focus on board work and the superintendent needs to do everything else yes maybe I have three dots from Ashley and they went away so I'm assuming she agrees with you so we have board members will not spend less than 50% of board authorized public meetings monitoring goals student outcomes and maybe addressing statuary statutorily required board work bye delegating Authority for the administration of

[01:06:00]
the schools to the superintendent and we can wordsmyth more later but is this grabbing the concepts so Ashley is typing she texted me and she said that Sophie has a specific definition of board work so we could just say that it won't spend less than 50% of board authorized public meetings monitoring goals and conducting board work I guess I don't know I mean I I I'm having a hard time just I think put something out there and then we can track our draft less than 50% comma and conducting we might keep statutory required for work as defined by delegating Authority for the administration of the schools to the superintendent

[01:07:00]
moving to draft number three the board shall not make major decisions without Community voice including students family and staff and her coaching was how will you develop a shared definition of major decisions so I'm making sure I'm getting you in this one did you have feedback or edits on three no one remember Gonzalez thank you so open the door for others including a shared definition of major decisions just reflecting back on the board policy that we just discussed there

[01:08:00]
some of the major decisions that we as a board were going to have to make so I wonder if major decisions is defined as I wonder if that's also Define what are the what are the defined pieces of board work right under sosg so so like are they defined in our policy you know because I mean I guess which I don't know cuz I'm right what's a major decision well I think I think what I'm saying is we don't have to just Define major decisions in the guardrail itself because in other policies the major decisions

[01:09:00]
are are defined like sorry in other policies the major decisions are defined for example the board policy that we just read says when it's over $500,000 that's a major decision and it comes to the board so maybe major decision the board shall not make major decisions as defined by policy without Community voice including students family and staff or something like that I think that applies certainly to the budget we just read but I'm trying to think about what are other major decisions like superintendent appointment hiring and I don't know that that's in the superintendent hiring policy but it's in statute so maybe that we have to seek public input know but it's a major decision is defined as scotch

[01:10:00]
requirements you know I can't spell or say something but I don't know I'm just throwing can we say something like the board shall not exclude Community voice and put students family and staff when making important decisions and then we're not saying major decisions but that we're not going to exclude their voice and that's a good one will not exclude Community voice and list the students family and staff when making important decisions but we still have important decisions in which isn't that defined we got to Define do we have to have that Define

[01:11:00]
decision that we need to make with the community I mean examples of our handbook and such those those are major decisions so I would put something more specific including not limited to maybe when making major decisions such as budget the hiring of a superintendent the setting of goals and guard rails and policy so for this one the guard rail does not have to Define it but you should have an agreement on what that means generally means issues of ownership support so I guess the way that it's written in terms of like the board should not exclude Community voice including family stop when making major decisions or important decisions I mean I

[01:12:00]
play liked personally like board member Jackson's you know as stated you know in policy because it but but I agree that's okay never mind you're right cuz we don't have it stated in all of our policy that's true okay for a draft first draft the board should not exclude Community voice including students family and staff when making major or important decisions such as budget superintendent hiring setting of goals and guardrails student handbook issues of obviously no one knows what owners support means but policy something like that we have the idea there so yeah something like that for now we're good that looks good okay number four number four board member isolation from the board another way to freeze this snowboard membership

[01:13:00]
on matters at the board has not publicly adopted through their speech or actions and there is something already in our code of ethics conduct

[01:14:00]
something saying being respectful of Staff time and resources maybe we could also integrate this into the guardrail about wasting time which I believe is number one right now too but I think we turned number two into more of a delegation guardrail instead of efficiency wasting time okay so I think it'd be good to have a an efficiency board members will not waste stuff time and reason hello how long are we going to be a funny policy

[01:15:00]
and things like that so there is a way for us to evaluate ourselves against that I think it would probably I mean I would say that word president probably plays a role here in terms of like knowing where it's being honored or not because the board president may be the one that's actually going to hear it

[01:16:00]
yeah and then it's up to the board president to Liaison with the board members saying you know cuz I do a lot of problem solving with Johanna I think that they are different and they need to be stated differently but I think that the guard rail of 50% give us some guidelines for staff time and all of these I mean there's not there's not really an enforcement power for any of these it's really

[01:17:00]
sorry I think that it's really just being clear about what the intent is but I think stating it as a guard rail puts it on us for sure because then it sets that expectation and we're also responsible for policing ourselves as well the board has established a process for tracking the cost of Staff time at least annually which came from our coach so we can also we can edit that as well well it's also reflected later on in the governor's manual when it talks about like the board meeting procedures the board meeting materials where we kind of set out the expectation of how we're going to be you know using time so I think it's established that is a great Segway to the manual okay and so let's go ahead and take a quick bio

[01:18:00]
Drake and we'll come back and 5 to 7 minutes to move on to the next agenda period

[01:19:00]
we had some High Point

[01:20:00]
[Could not understand audio]

[01:21:00]
[Could not understand audio]

[01:22:00]
[Could not understand audio]

[01:23:00]
[Could not understand audio]

[01:24:00]
are we waiting on serious are we like ready to go we are live and ready to go fantastic thank you we are ready to reconvene still on agenda item 4.2 I said we were talking it out so we finished the first chunk which was the guardrails we're moving now on to the second time which is the code of ethics during this part of the agenda we're also going to share screen and make some edits as we're moving to the board governance manual as a reminder we will be

[01:25:00]
voting again on the board governance manual as a whole it is full of some new language old language as well as policy language and there's color coding in there the red pipe is specific policies and so we're going to be going through tonight specifically the code of ethics which is on page 7 and the code of conduct which is on page eight any other edits that members have to the board governance manual overall can still be emailed back to the staff for consideration as edits to be brought before us in October 2nd meeting so those will come again with the packet that comes before the October 2nd meeting but we do want to make sure we're spending our time on the juiciest stuff and so if everyone can turn now to page 7 of the board governance manual we have the code of ethics or governing values on this one

[01:26:00]
the key point is that what is currently listed as the code of ethics is actually our guard rails so when this governance manual is approved we're going to actually cut out the red text that is here are governing values will be our guard rails that we just discussed and so for now what I'm going to ask everyone to do is to look through that governing values code of ethics section on page 7 and 8 read through those keeping in mind we're going to cut this unless there is something in here that you think is important enough to maintain in the code of conduct which is a different section that starts on page eight so your reviewing pages 78877 to highlight anything that you think is important and worth keeping and moving into the code of conduct

[01:27:00]
[Could not understand audio]

[01:28:00]
OK Google

[01:29:00]
does anyone need more time so we have the governing values as currently stated in policy on the screen this is going to go away and be replaced with guardrails is there anything in this list that's one through 12 that we need to keep and move into code of conduct on P Diddy I absolutely want number one that was something that when I first got on the board we never ever talked about making

[01:30:00]
location and the well-being of students you know just making decisions all based on what's best for them I think that's why we're here and that's what we're trying to do with student outcome Focus governance as we're trying to focus everything that we're doing and all decisions were making on their getting the best education possible so other than that I think a lot of that is already in administrative in our guard rails and our new guard rails in the code of conduct already that's on the next page so we can take this first one make the education for decision-making then I think we're ready to move on to the next

[01:31:00]
chunk of agenda item 4.2 which is the code of conduct which is later on in the page and on this one we're also going to use the evaluating governing policies framework that we have from the Council of great City Schools so as we did for the guardrails there is a section in this document that's the hard copy that we have at our seats evaluating governing policies on page 5 the bottom of page 5 are the guiding questions for evaluating board member conflict of interest they go on to the next page so as we begin as we review this conflict of interest language does the policy address the legal threshold required by the state as a bare minimum does it address

[01:32:00]
Bill and perceived conflicts of interest does it State the presence of community confidence and Trust as the primary justification for the policy does the policy restrict individual board members from voting or deliberating on issues related to individuals who have made campaign contributions does the policy restrict individual board members from voting or deliberating on issues related to family members who meet a mutually identified threshold I can't pronounce that on saying when he posts do consequences exist for the violation of this or any other policy so again we're Focus want a minute to read through the number code of conduct in while they're doing that just just so you guys are aware when I

[01:33:00]
inserted this policy in it looks like I doubled up so number three and number four are restatements of number one and number two so you can just delete number three and number four conduct and then we're going to have a conversation around does this meet the framework of guiding questions from the Council of great City schools and if the answer to any of those questions is no we're going to go ahead and make some proposed edits here acknowledging that this is maybe not draft draft but it's a draft it'll come back to us for additional feedback as with other policies there's opportunity for public impact will vote on it on October 2nd is the goal and then it'll go to full board for consent as well

[01:34:00]
[Could not understand audio]

[01:35:00]
are we ready to start the discussion I'm ready I'm ready all right woke up so keep in mind those questions that are on the number of pages board member conflict of interest policy

[01:36:00]
now that you've reviewed the conflict of interest and those questions if your answer to any of those questions is know if you can highlight that and propose changes are edits to this proposed document maybe I'll just go down the line president did you have any suggestions reactions or feedback I think just on number seven I think I think board members should recuse themselves from matters involving individuals or organizations when there's a potential for conflict of interest or perceived conflict of interest but to just say to who made campaign contributions to them or who appointed them again I guess I'm just how how is this

[01:37:00]
for me it's it's again it goes back to that level of Trust on the individual knowing that there is a real I mean who's deciding what's a conflict of interest here we are I know but so just by looking at the list of campaign contributions that's one way I mean it is for us to decide so it can be setting a threshold it can be looking at the list it could be so maybe I just need clarification on what is an area of concern for the board what's the area of concern on a campaign contribution I want an example of one an organization who made a campaign contribution to them I want an example of one so that I can understand what the concern is because then that would restrict wouldn't

[01:38:00]
does a policy restrict individual board members from voting or deliberating on issues related I mean it would keep you from voting I mean I'm just thinking about the Union contract and if they gave money to a campaign contributions that keep them from voting on The CBA that would keep them from that and that's right then well it's not possible I just want to be clear it's not the union that gives a campaign right and how are we going to know that from that so if so that's what that's what I'm trying to understand is just what's the if something so if it's not coming from the union itself because the union doesn't write you a check I'm going to use that as an example because I think that's what everybody's getting hung up on so the weather it's the the Educators Union or it's the

[01:39:00]
educational assistance union now they're all belonging to the all they all have different ones so they all have a pact that they are part of that they organize themselves outside of that for their legislative policies and the other things that they're doing so Union work is separate from their legislative policy and their their other work so is that considered a conflict of interest by the sport so I think where where I'm focusing in on this is the campaign contribution and you ask the question like where are campaign contributions becoming an issue there are people that are looking at campaign contributions on all sides and it is becoming an issue where people are going back through and are looking at where camping contributions came from right and so

[01:40:00]
I think in in in in in in in an effort to bring some specificity to this line to like remove some ambiguity as to what can you know where where does the campaign contribution become potentially a conflict of interest I think that's where it's important maybe to put in a dollar amount and you know to add in some like a figure because it's then creates the specificity that you're you're you're asking for but it's not it's not Union campaign contributions or nay off contributions campaign contributions recently have become an issue and so if we are going to address that and are going to be transparent to the public I think so that we are addressing number does the policy restricted

[01:41:00]
individual board members from voting on issues related to individuals who have made campaign contributions then yes yes it does but then to bring in the specificity we could as a suggestion say recuse themselves from matters involving individuals or organizations who made campaign contributions over 1,000 whether individual or aggregate amounts to I don't know not to them or who appointed them but something like that it that brings in the specificity because campaign contributions issue for every single one of us sitting up here so if we take out this language and if board members yeah that was

[01:42:00]
and I think the other question is on the bottom of page for the second question does the policy address real and perceived conflict of interest so we have conflict or perceived conflict if I could just jump in because I think even a good comparison would be like if particular Charter Schools even made a donation to any particular candidate and then they're bringing up something on the agenda to maybe approve an expansion or approve you know something that they need and if this Charter School made a donation I would think you would be expected to recuse yourself you know I think that's even a good comparison I know this is a tricky one I know this is a heavy heavy topic

[01:43:00]
for a lot of us but for me just last week I was asked about contribution that I received you know from and from people that were tied to an organization and I was like I'm not even tied to this organization and I'm having to explain that you know but and I think this is where it comes to us being completely transparent with everyone I think transparency is definitely the key and I mean by New Mexico State Statute anyone can look at any of our campaigns and see who gave us money and he didn't so I'm curious and this may be illegal question is there anything is there anything in State Statute that limits contribution to school board campaigns and

[01:44:00]
is there any power of enforcement on the part of the board if there's not in State Statute is there anything that would give the board enforcement power over making someone recuse themselves I mean I'm just thinking for practical point of view because how it gets interpreted could easily be a majority of the board basically refusing to give voice to a minority on the board and I think that's something that we did I mean traditionally tried to avoid so for instance if I mean to the issue of voting on the contract

[01:45:00]
have a negotiated agreement with one of the parking units it could be that we put it in and buy a vote at 4 to 3 for decide that you should have no voice on that boat and we will exclude you from the from the vote if that is not done voluntarily or that it could go the other way if the majority of the board decides that three people received contributions from making decisions about capital investment by the board that that Minority and I think it gets very much too because any one of us could end up in a minority position

[01:46:00]
point in time and so it gets really tricky and for that reason I mean I think that statutorily I would love to see campaign limits but am I right that there's nothing in statute good evening period I want to share with you that I had an opportunity to visit with the county attorney

[01:47:00]
that's interesting this very same issue is before the County Commission and we have been through there a little bit seem to say he's a little bit ahead of you in that we've been through several iterations and this is just an open-ended conversation by me put up with me a minute he said we started with saying if there is a $250,000 or more contribution that should be disclosed OK Google

[01:48:00]
I responded by in all of the rfps that I'm aware of request for proposals The Proposal is asked to sign a disclosure of campaign contribution form and that one is if an individual gave a board member or county commissioner in my case board member more than $250 you should disclose to whom it was given and the amount of the University of New Mexico is in the process of evaluating this and they're not quite ready to make a final decision

[01:49:00]
that the secretary of state has her campaign contribution reporting portal and that whether it's $100 or $10,000 it has to be reported and there are some requirements under State reporting of campaign contributions and he's like well instead of each one of us governmental entities trying to enforce a step and tracking it maybe we should be making full disclosure through the portal and I have found that an interesting approach but then I thought about a construction company who gave 10,000 to candidate and Loan

[01:50:00]
forward the bid to a construction company happens to be the same one comes before the board well the portal will reflect that campaign contribution so then the question is can the board member say yes I received $10,000 but that doesn't affect me at all I'm going to vote on this contract affirmatively or negatively I received 5,000 from the Union Bank it has nothing to do with my individual decision I've looked at everything and I'm comfortable that I can vote my conscience and my best friend but I am going to

[01:51:00]
due respect to the Council of great City schools and your coach and no disrespect there but it it it it comes to me to will recuse or will disclose and it seems to me whatever limit you said if you were going to set a floor or a ceiling for the guardrail sort of makes a

[01:52:00]
it's a tough one you raised a very interesting question and I think you even more than in the past you are all correct that there are many eyes looking at all candidates where they get their money and what actions they take and if that comports with good decision-making or is influenced by the contribution so I'm struggling with Will recuse themselves without at least a minimal amount of time I don't know how this is still in an interesting New Mexico

[01:53:00]
give this to you to share but they have two statutes which they have tried to codify in law for legislators and acting good conscience but if you if it is demonstrated that you have abused your public office

[01:54:00]
how would I expect you to the point where in up above full disclosure of real or in see above full disclosure of real or potential conflicts of interest shall be the guiding principle so of determining appropriate so just without a minimum I'm struggling with because if I give you a dollar then you will recuse from voting and that that seems to me out of bounds with just thank you for that and I think so we have inserted

[01:55:00]
placeholder dollar amount in here and so I want to ask you know how do people feel about a thousand do you want to make it 5 do you want to make it 10 do you want to make a 20.00 so that we can move ahead for now and allow Mr Melendez more time to continue to research and other folks as well acknowledging that this is just discussion tonight so that's what I want folks to think about while I'm acknowledging that member popular Romero has her hand so I will call on her thank you I guess I thought on the in relationship to the dollar amount would be maybe even a percentage versus a dollar amount that there's two thoughts there the secondly I think where can I get only say for me like some of my reservations come from when we talked about particular donors is when for me when I have read you know I guess quoted from and we'll use the Union

[01:56:00]
you know right now the verbiage out there is like we have to take our board back and their name is specific board members that have always supported them and that they can trust and and who've given respect to the teachers and for me on the opposite end you know who was raised questions in the past and I don't either support or not support I feel like I've kind of been in the middle I question you know their statements and relation to you know the donations and how one boats only based on their direct comments you know so that's why it does concern me personally I won't speak for anybody else on on the board but where I do have some reservations in in wondering if the campaign contributions are reflected on a vote just my thought thank you so

[01:57:00]
I would love to see public financing for school boards I mean that would be the solution to take that it's it's something that we could take on with the legislature short of that I think all of us have contributions from either individuals or organizations that others of us would find highly suspect or distasteful or not lining up with our own beliefs or intentions and all of those impact how we vote the issue is did we receive those contributions with an intent to buy our Vote or did we receive those contribution

[01:58:00]
what are positions and our core beliefs are and those are people who donated to US based on what are core beliefs are in the first place and I would like to think and this is this has to do I think going back to the guard rails that we set up not assuming ill intent in terms of our own integrity and believe that we have been each of us public about what we believe and we received from our constituents and we receive donations from People based on who we are and how we represented ourselves in public over many years and so given that it means that none of us could in any ethical way ever receive

[01:59:00]
so I just I think that we need to be careful if there's I need to think about what a dollar amount would be I mean I might be able to accept the dollar amount although I don't think it Alters my basic belief of this is not this is not a system that Fosters trust and I would like to work on changing the system but in the meantime I need to think about what a dollar amount might be that I find reasonable period so if we if we change this to say that board members May recuse themselves from matters involving individuals or organizations who made

[02:00:00]
contributions so that I mean because then it puts back the the the onus on us as an individual to it's our integrity that's on the line and I like to believe that you know we all come into this with a sense of Integrity for sure and absolutely I agree with board member Peterson I came into the board with a strong you know I would say a strong commitment to teachers and staff and you know to our staff because I I was married to one my mother was one so I come with that perspective also of family members that were you know part of the district and so a real strong support for teachers and staff at the doesn't mean that I'm bought and paid for because I had some contributions from the pack that was not it at all and I think it is up to because I because

[02:01:00]
I also have to serve a greater number of constituents other than just that particular group that has made a contribution to me because my constituents in my community probably means so far much more to me than that particular group and of itself so if it was to say board members May recuse themselves and we still had a dollar amount on that it's still puts the onus if I'm not correct back on the individual themselves to call out their integrity correct yes okay another word which is stronger or may disclose or should disclose yes I know you're working on this so I tried to put myself

[02:02:00]
your position when the contractor gave me a large contribution and then the contract came before the board I in your shoes would say that very night on that very issue not everything else that's out there I received a contribution from construction company X and before us tonight is approval of a Construction contract to this company as low bidder I want everyone to know I received this contribution is very important but

[02:03:00]
May should I forgot all about thank you so I mean I understand there are statutory limitations I understand there are disclosure requirements reporting requirements for me this is about holding ourselves to a higher standard and I think the question does the policy address real and perceived conflicts of interest we can all sit up here and say that we're not bought by anybody and we all receive accusations that we are bought by somebody and in order to respond to the question around does the policy State the presence of community confidence in order to maintain and ReStore Community confidence in the board as a whole in the district as a whole and in each of us as members I do think it's incumbent on us to hold ourselves to that higher standard and so I would be interested in

[02:04:00]
what a conversation around what's the harm so there's a lot of what ifs and scenarios what if I got a donation from nap or a specific contractor what if five of us got that donation above 5,000 like we can consider all of those what ifs but I don't want us to let those what ifs and scenarios and hurt feelings get in the way of restoring Community confidence so what is the language that we can put that will help restore that confidence even if we're not even if we're not doing anything wrong even if we've already reported it even if we're already disclosing how can we build that trust so for me that's what this is really about and why like how we respond to the questions that are in the evaluating governing policy manual for me as currently

[02:05:00]
this policy does not address real and perceived conflicts it does not State the presence of community confidence is does not prevent us or restrict us from voting or delivering on specific issues so what changes might we make that would make it a little stronger so we can continue to deliberate over to deliberate over the next couple of weeks and maybe approval of policy that helps to restore that Community Trust member Jackson yeah so that that was the point I was the point I was going to make is that it's not about Union contributions it's not about nayab contributions it's not about that it's about pulling up to a higher level and really looking at what is the primary justification for specifically since this is what we're talking about what is the primary justification for number seven is to restore Community confidence

[02:06:00]
it's to tell our community we recognize that campaign contributions no matter where they come from are going to potentially reflect a a need for more disclosure and that's why I think again to be to not obfuscate to be very specific to take out as much ambiguity as possible that's why for me having a number that we agree on helps to bring that level of trust back up also we were sitting here we know each other we've worked together for two years but this policy lives on and so how does this policy live on to the next board and the board after

[02:07:00]
so that the public has I don't want to keep using trust but has the belief that no matter which board is sitting up there they can trust that the decisions that we are making no matter who contributed to us are for the best of our students and so it's not about me sitting next to Barb and it's not about Peggy sitting next to Yolanda it's about who's going to be here in two years and four years and six years and how can we create that level of trust the other thing that I wanted to point out is that in this government's manual we do have a new area where board member concerns can be addressed there's it's literally the next section where board member concerns we lay out if there are concerns you know I mean if Crystal really gets upset with me there's a way that she can go to the

[02:08:00]
you should come to me first so that's what it says in the policy but but we're creating ways that those discussions and that accountability can happen all while being as transparent and forthright with are the public as we can thank you so we've made some edits and I don't have this cuz I did now I can't find my editing tools Butters involving individuals or organizations and whether

[02:09:00]
when there is potential for conflict of interest or perceived conflict of interest so this is the draughty language for us to continue to to deliberate on to Noodle on and to edit is there any other specific edit that folks would make right now before we move on to other numbers the only thing I would suggest is board member Mueller Aragon's move of make the education and well-being of students the basis for all I would move that down as the first one okay but on number seven oh I'm sorry it's okay okay okay so we're good with phone number 7 7 5

[02:10:00]
right with everyone to get us started she started us on number 7 number Muller Oregon are there other things that you would like us to edit Address discuss within the code of conduct but I messed up the number now sorry cuz I added that one so we're on number will anything within the code of conduct when you reviewed it are there any edits or changes that you would want to make propose I can't think of anything else I mean I'm still just uncomfortable with still number seven so remember Peterson any other of these numbers here in the code of conduct that you would want to discuss or make it to based on the questions that are in the evaluating governing policies document

[02:11:00]
come back to it cuz I'm still contemplating number seven and again I mean not to be a dead horse I just I think that it's very unclear about on what basis by whom will it be enforced you know all of those issues I think that it's that doesn't sit well because it's are we going to use this to have a majority of the board and I think that's the potentials wide open so as your noodling at it if there's anything around the enforcement piece that you think would be helpful to add to the board member performance concerns

[02:12:00]
we are monitoring ourselves so I think about that as well I will do that and remember Jackson were there any others in here that you wanted to discuss or edit just one edit is potentially where it says board member code of conduct and this is conflict of interest I think we can X Out conflict of interest because that was kind of more just a placeholder of what that's discussing so I would expect that out and the only one I kind of have a question on whether or not we should keep it or not is it's now turned into number nine but it's not give operational advice or an instruction to stop numbers because I wonder if that is kind of in our guard rail about the delegation being to the superintendent so I don't know if that's redundant I'm going to suspect that Ashley might

[02:13:00]
say that it should stay in but I don't know if it needs to stay in because it seems to me like it's our board work clearly tells us that we don't give operational advice or instruction to staff members so I'm with you on that one too yes you put that in as a comment because I don't know how much yes he hasn't already been said Thank you thank

[02:14:00]
Evan says it will complete a conflict of interest disclosure form on an annual basis I think that can be combined or is may already maybe already mentioned in 6 and then what's now 10 which was originally nine will update this if a new financial interest occurs which is also kind of already in here shall notify the executive director so I think we can cut two of them by collapsing them because they're repetitive lap 7 and 10 inches 6 okay so we have discussed guardrails code of ethics and code of conduct we've captured the edits these will come back to us for the October 2nd policy committee meeting and advice and opinions and we are ready to move on to our next agenda item

[02:15:00]
is still in discussion items item 4.3 our next item for discussion is next steps for the policy review and diet so let me stop screen sharing so I just want to point a cliff here so our next policy meeting is October the 2nd yes because this one was supposed to be September 3rd and it got pushed back twice and I'm okay just concerned because I know I I'll try my best to be part of that I'm going to be out of town this is really important and I feel like I have to vote on this one so I got to see if I can be able to to do it from Portland and I'm boarding out potentially likely I won't be here either it's my 4224

[02:16:00]
and so we can take that up with board Services whether we move the vote or move the meeting to make sure we can accommodate his most as many members as possible okay thank you for finding that I'll just point out that the following week is Monday's Columbus so policy review and diet so to bring you up to speed the ad hoc policy Review Committee which is myself a member Peterson met a couple of times we reviewed a rubric that was a zero to 10 rubric which is essentially with the low end zero and one are policies that are primarily administrative required administrative expertise and management responsibility the other end the 10 of the rubric is policies that

[02:17:00]
fire board governance expertise and responsibility after reviewing every single policy on our books we ranked them and 45% of our policies fell below 5 so right before or below so we also looked at of those 45% of policies which are administrative responsibilities we coded which ones are also legally required by us by law for us to have so the next step is that the Miss Martinez are policy analyst has already started is going through those 0 through 4 hours and she's going to put them into a packet which will be reviewed by cabinet for discussion and they will also weigh in on how they feel about whether those move to administrative manual or whether they stay as a board policy based on that discussion to us in a subsequent policy committee meeting

[02:18:00]
hopefully in the next one or so but it's going to depend on workload and timing and scheduling and everything else and we will review that in a in a group a bunch of all of those policies and we'll decide if we feel okay moving them into administrative manual and so if it's a policy that was for or below not required by law that is a administrative responsibility superintendent responsibility it becomes essentially a procedural directive and they have responsibility for us for it it doesn't come to us anymore as an example I mentioned there were 45% of our policies which are all in this category there are a lot of things that and try to do the list that fall so Investments is an example where required by law to have that but it's not

[02:19:00]
on a regular basis and so how can that be managed by the administration there's one on energy and Water Conservation there's one on school bus drivers and District Vehicles personal electronic devices in District Vehicles these are not things that are related to our goals or our student outcomes that are under the purview of the superintendent and the administration so those will move into administrative manual if you recall the way that we did the special ed policies they were sort of presented to us as strike throughs and then there was a new special ed manual created that the special ed department now manages so it's going to kind of look like that and we're going to do it in a trunk taking starting with the 0320022 first and then again depending on workload will get to the threes and fours because there are many policies that are required

[02:20:00]
we will maintain those policies on our books we will update them as necessary as legislation changes as we are required to update them but the guidance from sosg is that we update those and consent so if if we're required to have a policy on water conservation and it's required to be reviewed every two years since I'm just making this up it'll it'll stay as a policy but it'll be on our consent agenda so that's sort of what the next step for the policy work is we don't know the right word for how we categorize those below five's that are legally required so the word that I only word I can think of was like appendix it would be like an appendix to our board policies or just another section of our board policies that we maintain but again we're not really addressing them reviewing them frequently Legacy list is what they're called OK Google

[02:21:00]
call Cesar calls so go back to my notes comma I think that is everything with the policy Review Committee did I miss anything okay are there any questions about that I'll just add the some of this policies that really should not be policies they are not in our lap they still have some implications for student outcomes but that's what the superintendent to us for instance related to go for there's something about attendance and transportation impact attendance then maybe some policy about bus drivers and phones might be inappropriate

[02:22:00]
but it might be something that we want to hear something about sometime like this special ed manual or the driver procedural directive stuff but it only is it relates to one of our goals or guardrails it's not in our lap I do I have no idea what the qualifications of the bus driver are I just know that the superintendent and his designated so we well so those will be coming forth maybe some on the next policy committee meeting maybe not but probably the 022 so keep an eye out for that okay our next item is the chair report so the policy committee is scheduled to meet again on Monday

[02:23:00]
October 2nd at 5:00 p.m. tentatively we're going to look into again reviewing the agenda and the timing here in the boardroom at Dallas and Bruce King educational complex during that meeting which will be live streamed on the aps Board of Education YouTube channel we will continue the work from this evening so what that is that will be considering committee approval of the board guard rails so we edited them they'll come back to us in our board packet before that meeting and we'll have additional opportunity to edit and then we're going to ideally vote during that next meeting if they pass then go to the consent agenda of the of a subsequent board meeting which I think is October 18th but it doesn't have to be that one and they will also be incorporated into the board governance manual which will also come before the committee for a vote so we went through cutting the code of ethics keeping the code of conduct

[02:24:00]
the governance manual and any other changes that you would like to propose to that also email into board Services again you'll also have the deadline along with the packet that comes shortly for that October 2nd meeting the goal is again to vote on that full governance manual in committee because it has policies in it becomes our policy and then it'll go to the full board meeting for consent this committee will also been begin I guess this was just in the policy review diet the committee will also begin discussing policies that may not be considered work but are more appropriately considered administrative procedures so as I just said the 022 will come to us for repeal essentially and being moved into the administrative manual so along with the First Street of the budget draft will also continue to move that budget policy

[02:25:00]
so it's a lot of work ahead of us we've also done a whole lot already I know it's it's challenging and as I said it's juicy its controversial sometimes but it's rewarding and I think it's what our community expects of us so we will continue to keep the focus on student outcomes and continue to move these issues forward and with that we are adjourned
