Title: Policy Committee Meeting 1-13-2025
Video ID: ywUx_n8hfnE
==================================================

[00:00:00]
I'm sorry board chairman is we are streaming hey welcome everyone to the first policy committee meeting of the year and let me get rid of all these can everyone hear me okay I'm getting signals that I have poor voice quality so I'd like to call this meeting to order could we please have a roll call Dr Albright danella store

[00:01:00]
Benavides here Courtney Jackson Josefina Dominguez here our first item for consideration in action is adoption of the January 13th 2025 policy committee meeting agenda before we do that I'd like to make a brief statement I want to share a few insights I've had the student outcomes Focus governance or s o f g framework encourages board members to watch recorded meetings with an eye on our adult behaviors how we are honoring structural Integrity of the framework I watched the November policy meeting again and will eventually watch the December meeting and I reflected on my own behaviour and performance as chair so here are my Reflections first

[00:02:00]
I want to thank board member Astoria for trying to keep us keep us on track I felt short of my own standards in doing so I will take charge and that's a promise I made to myself and to fellow committee members and staff I want to honor both board members and staff members time so to that end meetings will begin our meetings will be 1 hour at 45 minutes and I will set my handy timer as a reminder I will pause the discussion to wrap things up and just suggest agenda items or next steps for the following months policy meeting I'll work hard to avoid being distracted by unproductive off track comments and talk and will ask all committee members to do the same if four of us are in agreement there's no sense in allowing for other

[00:03:00]
conversation or discussion after we've had our initial statements we will have an opportunity to State our perspective and opinion once but not to repeat or restate that opportunity to State opinions or comments again can happen at the Dias when the policy committee forwards its recommendations to the board and so with that I'd like to ask for emotion and a second for today's agenda and quickly please we only have 40 and you two minutes left meeting agenda this is board member Jackson

[00:04:00]
from the policy committee meeting on December 2nd 2024 I asked for a motion in a second please I move to prove the minutes from the policy committee meeting on December 2nd 2024 Nebraska football

[00:05:00]
I was not on the policy committee then so it might take a vote on this I think the minutes are okay okay okay Courtney Jackson yes it must have been a Dominguez yes we move on to our action items action item 4.1 our next item for consideration and action is to consider approval of the addition of section for our requests for information policy and process to the aps Board of Education governance manual presenters will be at home and myself I asked for a motion and second please

[00:06:00]
promotion in a second to approve the for our and then you're going to move to discussion yes okay so I moved to approve the addition of section 4r request for information policy and process to the aps Board of Education governance manual this is member Jackson Bible second this is board member hospital today so we opened for discussion and so I believe some of you may have comments and observations to offer

[00:07:00]
erase my hand but I can't okay there it is I don't know if you can see that I raised my hand yes board member Jackson okay just a couple of sorry hold on let me get into it real quick a couple of just suggestions is that were that I noticed as well as we're kind of offered up in the suggestions that came in this is this first one is my fault that I didn't catch it but in looking at the document in 4 hours for so where it says if the information is not readily available and then readily available is defined in that section it's defined as readily available but

[00:08:00]
further down under the request for information like in the very specific like the process it's referred to as readily accessible so I would like to request that up in 4 or 4 where it says readily available but that terminology be changed to readily accessible so that the phrase the phrasing is consistent throughout the document so that is my my first request do you want to discuss my first request first is everyone in agreement or I should ask is anyone in disagreement with that okay if you're listening which I'm sure you are

[00:09:00]
it would be reflected in for and also in five basic just in that top half where anything that says readily available needs to be switched to readily accessible okay the the second suggestion is down at the bottom where it says addendum to 4:00 information process and that the phrase of addendum just be removed and it just be just discussed as the request for information process because it's not really it's not an addendum to the policy it's actually part of the policy so that's just a request to remove that phrase could

[00:10:00]
request for information process just a sentence it's basically a heading yes and any discussion about that or concerns other perspectives or are we in agreement okay I think there's an agreement there okay and move to my third one or do you want me to

[00:11:00]
third one's going to probably require a little bit more discussion so down so now we're on the second page and this one is currently listed as a number 7 where it starts with for information not readily accessible so just to orient everyone to where I am so it says the district must provide the request of material within 20 business days if this is unreasonably difficult due to the factors blah blah blah so one of the suggestions that that came in was that okay if information is not readily accessible and there is the question of whether or not a board member actually needs that information in order to fulfill their duties so suggestion came in for information not readily accessible

[00:12:00]
so this is this is the new suggestion for information not readily accessible the superintendent will share the request with the board executive committee for them to weigh in during their next regular meeting as to whether the request is appropriate if the majority of the executive committee determines that the request is appropriate they will direct the superintendent and administration or Administration to provide the request of materials to the full board within 20 business days if this is unreasonably difficult due to factors like volume or location the district makes the timeline to 30 business days but must notify the board member of the reason for the delay so I'll stop there

[00:13:00]
so you can read it on your own if that's helpful okay so just to clarify if if a request is going to not be available within 20 business days then we need to basically what you're saying is we need to evaluate the appropriateness of the request and so adjust do you have a an example in mind because I'm it's hard for me to imagine why the length of the producing the documentation or whatever it is would be a determining factor in whether it was appropriate so okay I'm going to try to think of something off the top of my head and I am requesting the

[00:14:00]
let's see the the the the the the amount of money that has been out here the school lunch program has changed between one provider to another provider and I'm really interested to know how how much money potentially is going to be lost between each School each of the 170 plus schools that we have and I really interested to know if any money has been lost in between the the change and I would like to superintendent to get me that information because it's important a constituent asked me okay and I'm totally just pulling this album there so that's a question that I've asked what is finding that information

[00:15:00]
they're going to have to go to the schools they're going to have to find the find find receipts I don't know again I'm just making this up if it's an inappropriate if it's if it's a request it's going to take more than 20 business days for them to get the information for me because they're going to have to go to all 10062 schools the question then becomes is that really information that I need as a board member like is that really something that I need in order to fulfill my duties think that's the underlying question that this is trying to answer ya so then it would seem to me the appropriate of the request would be evaluated before the length of time is going to take to find the information for efficiency purposes yes and hopefully that is addressed earlier up in the in the so that this is an app like of kind of

[00:16:00]
is it appropriate so so we determine if it's appropriate and then it is but then it's going to take a while it's going to take an excess of 20 days to gather the information so then we again determine whether it's appropriate by taking it to the executive board I get I guess that's the suggestion that's coming yeah it's like is it then a two-step process for how how appropriate or worthwhile is this really for board member governance okay I think that's that's the the question that came in yeah I have clarity now and I wasn't I was just asking to get a better understanding I don't have no other ways I'm sorry I didn't have a better idea of hand know it was good if I may I try to put the statement in the chat but our child is disabled just wanted to let you know that's why I didn't do that but I also have a

[00:17:00]
I have a concern when it has to go through the executive committee first in order to determine whether it's worthwhile or if it should be passed on to staff just because I know that executive committee only meets once a month so that can take even longer for the information to come to the board member if that's something that we decide to do so I just wanted to put that information out there as well thank you and just I noted the same concern but I guess it depends after hearing remember Jackson's exclamation point do you have any comments I agree because the executive

[00:18:00]
give me information that is being asked for my biggest thing in all of this is sometimes it should be the privilege of the board to ask the superintendent for what they need only due to the relationship of the superintendent with board members and I've asked for many questions and I've always gotten my answer but I do know if it's based on other circumstances in the way to issue of if it requires more information than than that it won't meet the deadline in the near future if that occurs but I feel right now the immediate sea of getting that answer to the board member will be waiting to do to the committee not only the executive committee only meeting once a month

[00:19:00]
and that may hinder the response for the board member so I agree with Janelle and Josefina and my dog is playing in the back and causing problems so if I turn around and go there to stop I will that's why I'm not here cuz I think it opens up the question does it come from I mean is it more nuanced the question that you're asking the clarification that you're asking for is the information is coming from our constituents do we direct them to let's talk let's talk platform

[00:20:00]
and then Reserve I mean and then reserves the right to you know follow up or be included in that response so we know it's got its gotten taken care of I mean I I think we we absolutely should write and I think that's what this I hope that's kind of what this document is attempting to resolve is is what kind of information we are are actually taking directly to the superintendent versus you know what were what were sending through you know let's talk to be to be separated out so I don't anticipate I mean I wouldn't hope that we are asking such weighted information that it takes more than 20 business days for us to receive information you know this is merely a presentation of you know

[00:21:00]
an ability to have a discussion of a suggestion that came in yes so I'm not accusing anybody of doing this or think that anybody would do this but I see that there could be a potential issue if somebody wanted to make it an issue where in every request would take more than 20 days so that it would go to the executive committee who then would have the option to approve the request or deny the request and stop the process of releasing the information and so I do see where it would be helpful but I also see where it could potentially be harmful as well yeah and I and I don't want to see it escalate to I mean my preference is always to broaden the conversation and

[00:22:00]
transparency so I wouldn't stop at the executive committee but you know request for information like an Engaged constituent right who who doesn't have information readily accessible to to them and so is it inappropriate videos

[00:23:00]
can I speak for you all but something that takes analysis right so back to an example if if the question was like how many how many gates have we painted red in the district since 1950 that may not be information that's readily available for to us and and we would have to go through records if we had them if we didn't and what I'm hearing again is kind of what's the relevant and is that best use of time you know and I guess that would be determined through a relationship between the superintendent and the board board member that's asking the question but I what I was hearing early on in my head was kind of the relevance to to what we're doing everything has relevant and everything has purpose but it was just kind of that's what I heard from board member Jackson not speaking for you but that was kind of what I was hearing and I think you know it in my head it kind of goes along with kind of like iPod guidelines and I know that's a different story but you know when people ask for information if we have it we produce it right as you know that's something we give up if it's something that we have to go or we don't have then there's some

[00:24:00]
play further discussion that's had and that's that could either you know following the law right that could be changed and I know that's different for the board but that's what I'm hearing so you know that it wouldn't in my mind it wouldn't be blocking any kind of information that we had it's more of the analysis and the purpose on the other side so I'm reluctant to spend more time on this because we're down we've got 21 minutes left and and I remember on our survey we said let's try not to solve problems that don't exist so can we just reiterate that if a constituent wants information we direct them to let's talk we know that it's not an hour Lane to ask for the history on

[00:25:00]
how many something small like I was going to say silly like red how many senses have been painted red I know where we're going to get more serious questions than that and I would say I would leave this alone until there's a problem with it and board member Jackson the answer to what he said is it's actually laid out for us and number two at the big you know at the beginning of the the policy where it says the board members will respect will respect the delineation between governance responsibilities and operational duties

[00:26:00]
and I would think that an operational question is going to be something that would probably be more time consuming but that also gives the superintendent and her staff the ability to have those discussions with board members that if I do come to him and her and say no I really want to know how many gates have been painted red the superintendent has a policy that she can point to to say you know I'm really sorry that's not a question that's in your lane and here's the policy and so it kind of creates that that guard rail that we need so I'm going to leave it as it is anyone else I just want to throw out there that the our responsibility and so the urgency if it is a community issue

[00:27:00]
then we can push that through do what's needed and if there's a response that needs to go back to them then I think that's our lane and that's our area but other than that like like Courtney said it's still those areas with superintendent and what she needs to follow also has to be her issues and her lines that she needs to draw okay so I'm going to move move on because there is another I've got something here so board member historically just correct me if I'm wrong I got a note that you were going to provide a quick clarification regarding number eight I believe remember Jackson had her hand up to continue so I'm first going to since we were at the bottom I'm going to go all

[00:28:00]
play to the bottom where it says request from constituents community members elected officials and the media so all of that it has been striked but the intention for that was to actually have a discussion to see if we can move that section to 4p which is under Community engagement so it wasn't necessarily to remove that from for our it was or from the governance manual but just from for are and move it to 4 p.m. so that that is under Community engagement so that's just one thing that I'll leave open for right now we disagreements about that okay so no no disagreement at all and I don't I think it can be incorporated I don't know if right now it needs like word for word cuz I think there's probably going to be some overlap between what was written in 4pi as it relates to request

[00:29:00]
constituents to what is already in 4-Piece so I would caution the committee from right now just cutting and pasting it into 4 p.m. because because there might be overlap but but that information pertains absolutely more to community engagement than it does to request for information about Community engagement I still think it needs to be within this communication piece because it is communication and that addresses media and those pieces that it should in some form stay here whether we revise it or make it different only because it

[00:30:00]
is part of the communication needed for media that's my response I like the suggestion to leave the it would be number 7 I think you're talking about the media inquiries is there any other which part are you talking about number seven under request for the portion that has been struck entirely so there's a suggestion that we keep some language in this section particularly because we need to address and so maybe you come back

[00:31:00]
it's sounding like we need a little bit more time with this language okay so let's see what we can what what we can devise for this portion to address it sounds like media yeah and I have a suggestion but I don't want to rush but I also don't want to be labor so in item number nine under or addendum for request for information items 8 and 9 read if I request is denied and the board member wishes to pursue it they may email the board president and superintendent to

[00:32:00]
request and this is what I highlighted request it be placed on a future board agenda and I just want to point out that the president on this board has been to clarify deadlines so you know request it be placed on a future board agenda that's too loose for for my satisfaction so can we can we agree that this needs more work board members on this policy committee do you have a suggestion for language you would prefer well I mean I recently read 20 days you know on the on the next board agenda

[00:33:00]
but I know that that requires more conversation with I think with staff because board agendas get staff and and the president and policy chair perhaps because to say something along the lines of would be placed on the board agenda once the field or once request is fulfilled something to that nature so it gives staff time to fulfill the request and then we can put it on that next board meeting

[00:34:00]
pursue it and this also raises a whole other point that I like to mention how do we make these requests transparent so that we are all aware of the request for agenda items and I bring this up because number nine reads if the majority of the board supports the request the superintendent will ask staff to fulfill it well how does the rest of the board know if there's even a majority and I'm going to harken back to August when there was a request on the executive committee to put a charter school workshop on the agenda and that never happened and I know there was a majority who wanted that so how do we I think we need language here

[00:35:00]
again timeline and transparency promotes transparency board member Jackson so I think just reading it I'm not disagreeing but but 9 is following from 8:00 so 8 is saying that if the request is denied by the superintendent that the board member can say well I want this request discussed in public on the agenda so it's just the request that's put on the agenda and then not following and then that request of I really want to know that how many gates are painted red we discussed in public and if four of us say yes that's where that majority of the board language is coming from

[00:36:00]
to say so it's it's the request per se of what that one board member is asking for and then if the majority of the board says yes we really do want to know about this then that pushes the superintendent to action that that she does have to fulfill that request so it's not it's not you asking for say it's the actual request the actual bit of information that you want to know if that clarifies what 89 are actually saying okay so that takes care I think of defining a future board agenda right but it does not address the transparency issue so how do we all know when a request from a board member has come through and

[00:37:00]
and how do we figure out if there's a I mean we all need to weigh in and we need to be able to do that honoring oh my and the rules and regs that govern us but we also need to promote transparency board member Benavides I'm actually board member is Dora's had her hand up first okay thank you thank you so much I was just wanting to say that I am I agree with the transparency piece and just wanted to give kind of like an example or contacts because I know you had sent out a request for that charter school training through email and the reason that it wasn't put on an agenda was because no other board members responded to it with their interest which is also a hard thing to do because I know board members were confused if that would have been rolling for him or not so

[00:38:00]
that's why nobody responded but in the end they were consequence was nobody was interested quote on quote because there was no response so I don't have an answer but I am on the same page with you when it comes to how do we provide that transparency and what that would look like I would assume that once the request is given to the superintendent and president that it would be put on the next agenda and that's how all board members would know but I just wanted to give some of that context to of what happened before and I'm glad you did mention that because that's still not that's that clearly didn't work right so what's the Avenue for for all board members knowing that a request has come through a request for not painting Gates but something actually very valid we want a charter school Workshop

[00:39:00]
how I want it how do I know that piece is is is is is missing here board member Benavides thank you just to kind of put a point on it if the request is denied the board member was just to pursue it they may email the board president and superintendent superintendent we haven't decided when that is going to be hopefully the next Portage agenda but then it's place on the agenda and that is where we all become aware as board members of what the request was and there is the transparency piece unless I misunderstanding the process entirely okay but here's here's what the stickler stuff it's not quite that easy because as you will see in the south

[00:40:00]
in one of the evaluations its you will not have more than five agenda items and so do we really want an agenda item to request a meeting I mean this is the fact that we are focused on student outcomes and that's what 50% of our meetings are supposed to contain and this request it doesn't necessarily mean that period

[00:41:00]
and so it's up to us to use this judiciously and any kind of regulates itself we know we're not supposed to spend more or less than 50% of our time in a meeting and so it's up to us as board members to decide is this something that I need to pursue to have placed on the agenda because it's been requested it's been denied in the initial request and it's just it's something that we need to think about individually I think how important is it based on what our governance manual tells us we are supposed to be spending our time on okay and I can tell you that Charter Schools Workshop I don't I think you can argue I think it's possible to have a leader argue that it doesn't apply to now comes

[00:42:00]
I think that's still something that we need to be discussing not everything we do is student outcomes progress monitoring oriented but it's still valid so to get back to this number nine the the if a majority of the board supports the request how do we know that there's a majority that's the question how do we know when someone submits a request board member who had whoever had her hand up first clarify what that looks like for me and it would fall if I'm you can correct me if I'm wrong any of the board members but it would fall under a discussion item as a request

[00:43:00]
on the board agenda so we will have a discussion about your request and that's how we would know what the majority is but also I don't want you to feel so constrained because of the 50% of minutes are spending on sgfg because if we're doing our job we're already doing that and hopefully a small discussion around this request won't take us over our limit but also if it's something that the board member feels it is important to discuss then they shouldn't feel like they don't have a voice in order to put that on the agenda and have that discussion so I don't want to say that we are limited in that in that way when it comes to our time use but as remember going to be this put it we should be aware and decide individually if that's something that should be placed on the agenda I'll just I'm going to give ditto marks to what number

[00:44:00]
very succinctly laying out the way that this policy is even written that the the level of information that we should be requesting it is laid out how we should be requesting that but I just I just want to clarify that because you keep asking you asked the question of how do we know if the majority of the board supports it number 9 is very specific that is once it is being discussed at a board meeting so the way you know if a majority of the board supports the request its by 4 or more members on the diet during the discussion of this request saying we support this request that's what number nine is very specifically it's the physicality of city on the dice at a board meeting that's how you know if the majority supports it or not okay so

[00:45:00]
I'm going to go back to the Charter School example and board members tomahto and a store that you were on the executive committee so what held up the how should that have been handled so that it became an item on the agenda should that have been a request to the superintendent and a written email to the president and the superintendent so what yeah so what happened was we got the request and since you sent it through email that was the way that we were able to respond as board members with their interest but because there was no quote on quote responses because I know that there might have been interested but there was no responses to that email then the request was denied to put it on the agenda because there wasn't the majority of board members

[00:46:00]
running down the agenda but again I do want to clarify that I think the problem was we didn't want to you know have rolling Quorum when we responded to the email so I do believe that there was confusion on that if that request was sent out and we emailed then we would you know I'm having difficulty with that thinking because I voice the concern I voice the request you and board member to were in agreement but it didn't end up on the agenda for the full board members to come into majority so nobody responded to your email with an interest and again that is we're learning with that process is like but that was the discussion during our executive meeting so does and you can tell we're down to we're not going to

[00:47:00]
we're down to 1413 minutes that that was that was a problem with that way of reporting because if we're going to use the email system in the whole process of rolling Quorum then it's going to defeat the purpose and really getting someone's message out so hopefully with this policy the the problem I'm seeing is that I hope with a fair issue if its charter schools and the request goes to president and superintendent that the issue is valuable that it goes on to the agenda and then if it's a valuable and you know a concern with one board member that it would make it onto the agenda instead of thinking that it has to be all members don't make it an issue so I'm not going to get an issue

[00:48:00]
I'm not going to put it on the agenda so I think by the policy and if there's a denial of one board then then passing it on or making sure the president and the superintendent put it on the agenda is the question and how concerned the issue I don't know if it pertains to them and they feel there's an urgency to put it on the agenda but I'm hoping with the policy that it just goes forward and then put on the agenda yeah something more concrete so I'm going to come back to you I'd like to I'll get to you board member Jackson I'd like to hear board member benavidez respond to the issue the very specific issue of the charter school the request to put charter schools on the agenda so okay so just to be clear we're talking about something that happened in the past to try to help

[00:49:00]
what does clarity as we put things on the agenda moving forward but this isn't necessarily a request for information issue correct I mean I'm happy to do it but I just want to be clear that I was kind of getting off the agenda but just like okay I think that there was a missed opportunity for anybody to have taken that issue and just made it clear that they wanted it to be on the agenda and it could have been me it could have been because you brought it up it could have been the other members of the executive board advocating for it as well and so and maybe you know I know we're not supposed to to have a quorum and really speak to each other about issues but you know if something needs to be said you know make sure everybody knows about it and I think it was just

[00:50:00]
matter of the ball was dropped in many different areas and communication is important I don't know what the proper procedure is but also this is not RFI related so you're right you're right thank you for that reminder and so we will we're going to have to work on this language anyway and I think transparency needs to be figured out on this RFI when you start talking about majority of the board supports so I'm going to move to remember Jackson and I'm going to give you a minute to weigh in I just have three quick points and the first is is that the how how items are added to an agenda is already listed in 4k so you can go back and read 4K so that's already listed and I'm new to the executive committee but I am aware that the executive committee does have a document or notes or minutes and those are

[00:51:00]
publicly posted for the board so if there was ever any concern that something was maybe not discussed by the executive committee it would be reflected in the notes that all the board members are able to to view that's that's not hidden it's not just for the executive committee to see all board members have access and then the final point is that in number three of the RFI policy says board members will participate in a transparent process quarterly to evaluate requests made to staff that is where some transparency does come forth and when we participate in that that that that that process quarterly we're going to be able to see what kind of information has come forth from the board member so that we can identify trends that we can potentially see if there's policy adjustments that need to be made and that's where we're going to see what what information came for us so that nothing is hidden and that will be done quarterly according to the policy as written

[00:52:00]
that helps with the clarification so it's number three that I think is going to be the heart okay and so we are we have 7 minutes left and let's I'd like to clarify agreements here what are we are we done with comments on that doesn't matter because we're out of time so it seems to me I need to check in with our policy analyst Martinez so what did what do you notes what do they capture as next possible next steps or possible next steps chair on this

[00:53:00]
so we have let's see on 4r item number for the language that reads readily available throughout the document is going to be changed to be readily accessible that appears in four five and somewhere on the second page number seven and we are leaving number 7 on page 10 of 81189 for the section on the last page that has been struck with the recommendation to move to 4:00 p.m. we have discussed leaving number 7

[00:54:00]
and the in section 4r but we are going to have to discuss that when we come to the governance manual is that your understanding I think they wanted to leave that number 7 media inquiries within the RFI in the request for information policy I just don't know where yet but that the rest of it would be moved to for me I think there was some concern about it the language and one through six and we can clarify that later I will say the number 7 media inquiries should be directed to the word president that's actually listed I think in at least two other places in the governor's manual already so

[00:55:00]
it could stay in the request for information policy but it is already it would be redundant to information that is already listed elsewhere like particularly in the board officer section where it discusses the president's the president's role it does have a specific language to the media so I think it's a it's a discussion as to whether or not we want to have redundant language throughout and while I agree with you if I'm a journalist I'm going to look at your request you know for information I'm not going to know to go the first thing I'm going to think of is request for information policy and points it's a form of communication that's that's only that's the only reason why I'm stating it should be there

[00:56:00]
I'm not saying for against I was just you know how I am that's right now right and that's good I mean it's good to know where it is in the other parts of the government's manual so then how do we want to do this Committee in 1 minute and 33 seconds and I worked on this and I don't think we break for him if we do the work or does someone else want to pick it up so this was supposed to be the second read and this is now supposed to this is an action it

[00:57:00]
women that were supposed to vote whether or not we're going to move this forward to the full board so I think that is actually the pertinent question is are we moving this document forward to the full board as per you know the policy scope and development policy or tabling it as an action or postponing it as an action to a future policy meeting until it is complete policy chair in this case determine the if amendments need further study that an additional reading would be desirable so our scope and policy does allow for third meeting and then we want to make sure that it's fine so

[00:58:00]
we've got one minute so I'm I'm suggesting that we continue the work we postpone the approval and continue the work taking comments into consideration is that fine and board member and Jackson do we need to make a motion to that end I think board member but from what my understanding is what she just shared we do need to make a motion and I believe we might have to do that for the other action items as well

[00:59:00]
so may I have first may I have a motion to to authorized the authorized to continue working on this for a third read and a second to that end I guess to say to move the remaining items to February meeting we have to include that the authorization for the ad hoc committee to move forward with the work if somebody could give me Clarity on that would be helpful

[01:00:00]
Dr Albright she might be able to guide us in the right direction I'll tell you what the board manual says I believe that first board member Jackson needs to amend her motion because there is emotion on the floor to accept this as it is I'm back I don't know what happened did you hear any of that no I just got here I'm not sure what's going on with my computer so doctor all right could you direct board member Jackson regarding the motion picture

[01:01:00]
so in order for us to not do that I think you need to amend your emotion and board members are going to approve the change and then we can move forward from there and so when I missed the change I'm sorry what amended to change it to what happened to table the conversation until the following policy committee meeting correct OK Google of reauthorizing the committee to continue the work OK Google and myself to to bring this the discussions the comments

[01:02:00]
so the only person who can reauthorize an ad-hoc committee currently is the president so I cannot make that motion right so that would need something that we have to have President Gonzalez reauthorized the ad hoc committee we don't need to reauthorize at hot committee I think if we just so maybe you were frozen at this time but I asked how do you all feel about board member home worried too and myself working on this to incorporate the comments to get it past the Finish Line in February okay and yeah I think that's fine because I don't think that the ad hoc committee has actually been disassembled right like you guys

[01:03:00]
fill in you're so so authorized as the committee I well I either way I don't know I don't want to make this that's not emotion that I can make either way so I will I will move to amend my motion to postpone the discussion of the forearm RFI policy to the next policy committee meeting in February is that accurate enough Dr Albright are we postponing action that's fine okay and I approve and second the new motion okay so next time do we need to include everything

[01:04:00]
continuing the discussion for 4.1 to the February policy meeting in basic summary Janella store now we need another motion to move all other action items action items 4.2 or point

[01:05:00]
4.2 through 4.8 to the next policy committee meeting I need someone to motion that please in a second I move that we is the proper terminology table or postpone postpone is the proper terminology items 4.2 through 4.88 to appear on the February policy meeting agenda this is

[01:06:00]
Janella story have put in a lot of work on the agenda items that are here on 4. 2 2 5

[01:07:00]
all of us I've been waiting since September to birth this two revisions so I understand the frustration but we are learning as we go and growing pains and frustration are part of the process we need to be curious about why things happen the way they do and find the mistakes figure them out above all we need to do the work right we can't rush the rushing has created some real problems and has wasted staff time by the way I spent a lot of time with our policy analyst and with

[01:08:00]
try to figure out the mess that's on the master draft revision that you're ad hoc worked on so I mean so diligently but I have to say that we need to do our homework before we come here I'm happy to have conversations and so yes my vote is yes the next Monday February 3rd at 5:15 and I want to stress this is a change of 15 minutes 5:15 virtually and you can watch us on the AP

[01:09:00]
Board of Education YouTube channel and with that we are adjourned thank you
