Title: Regular Board of Education Meeting 1-4-2023
Video ID: JGR1Cc5Sr5g
==================================================

[00:00:00]
welcome to tonight's board meeting thank you for coming will you please join me in saying the Pledge of Allegiance Pledge Allegiance of the United States of America's graduates who lost their lives lost country

[00:01:00]
thank you I would now like to call the meeting to order Dr Albright may have a roll call please Gonzalez Barbara Peterson here Crystal tapioca Romero Josefina Dominguez here and Courtney Jackson so our first order of business will be to adopt the January 4th 2023 Board of Education meeting agenda and December 19th 2022 special Board of Education meeting minutes may I have a motion is there any discussion Dr Albright please have a roll call Vote Yes yes yes Crystal

[00:02:00]
yes thank you we will now move to agenda item for public forum Dr Albright Mr Gonzalez will you lead us in public forum superintendent Elder no one has signed up a public forum tonight thank you nominations and elections of board officers for president vice president secretary and possibly committee chairs or work group leads will be conducted tonight the term of office for all officers and committee chairs Shelby one year officers and chairs may serve successive terms of office at this time I will give each board member a few moments to speak about your particular interest in specific board positions you may have an opportunity before voting for each position to speak about why you want that position this is simply a chance to share which positions you would or would not be interested in I will open this up for discussion board members you

[00:03:00]
I know I'm still trying to get myself together here this has been an interesting year I've enjoyed being president for the board I felt like during this last year with you know being in this role I was honored to have the opportunity to lead the board I think I'm still interested if you know if that was the will of the board I definitely would be interested in continuing with that but I'm not not nominating myself that's for dang sure so the only other I think the only other position I I would hope that I could stay on the executive committee in some way but again I'm not nominating myself for anything at this point thank you

[00:04:00]
a lot of really wonderful accomplishment and I think we've we've done a lot in looking forward to a lot of changes in the future that I think are going to be really good for for our for our students and I I too have enjoyed my position and enjoyed working with President Montoya court of law on I be happy to stay as vice president but whatever wherever I could serve my community best I am happy to you know to do that and I know I have been chair of financial I do understand that and having been chair of audits you know it's something that I know I'm also good at but I'm happy to to be used forever I will do my best work

[00:05:00]
board member Gonzalez thank you I'd like to express my interest in serving as the president of the board and have also appreciated my time over the course of the last year the learning opportunity from our current serving president but also having the opportunity to serve as the policy chair thank you board member Peterson I'd be interested in continuing on as instruction into accountability chair it is not been a real active committee because of the whole development of our goals and guard rails and her strategic plan so it's a committee that has not been hugely active but I feel like it is my strengths of my background in education and would be happy to continue with that and expect there to be a more Dynamic amount of work in the coming year board member top

[00:06:00]
thank you at first I just want to express my gratitude to the current executive committee and just the time and effort that you all put into I guess rounding all of us together and dealing with all of the new board members but I'm excited for the new year and what's to come and I guess specifically just the the new direction that we're going to head forward in terms of what are goals are going to be in the student outcomes that we're going to focus on I believe it is time to actually have some fresh you know Outlook and fresh blood as we move forward and to ensure that we are aligned and we continue to do what's best for the district for myself I will serve in whatever capacity I needed I'm not grounded to any particular position just wherever you know the entire board fills I am best suited and best served I'm willing to help in any capacity that I possibly can and I am very excited

[00:07:00]
is a committee that I'm definitely interested in remaining in because it has required such a steep learning curve and and I think I've learned made some good relationships outside of the district through I'm interested in continuing and in this capacity and board member Jackson just want to express my gratitude to both the board member Montoya Cordova Aragon for City on the executive committee with you I learned a lot over the last year and I appreciate your leadership being veterans

[00:08:00]
so I have appreciated and I and I have learned a lot by sitting on the executive committee but I am interested in kind of moving to a different position to to continue my learning process of all things APS and so I would be interested in sitting as the policy committee chair for the next year before I asked for nominations from the floor for the position of President we need to establish the board's will for the process since your meeting in a hybrid virtual setting all agenda action items require a roll call vote traditionally if there is more than one person nominated for a position each nominee minutes to speak in the order that they were nominated as to why they would like the position if there are no

[00:09:00]
directions we will proceed with Traditions the current leadership that the current leadership has definitely moved the district we have focused on real change but also had a real deep sense of continuity and respect for previous work the knowledge of the administration and realization for moving forward I think the current configuration of board member number of knowledge and insight into that position she has maintained I think a real sense of unity of the board his found

[00:10:00]
list of pulling together disparate points of view and made the board of very functional body and I think we can be proud of the work that's been done on everyone's part in this past year I think she definitely wants an opportunity to continue in that position as we look forward to 2023 there will definitely be some changes to the board coming the experience that the people who are newly elected a year ago have become seasoned with the complexity of the district and awareness of existed within the district for a long time but the complexity and moving forward and I think that the current executive

[00:11:00]
body really embodies both the strength of the new members who have come on board in the last year and the knowledge and expertise of the people who have already set in these positions so I would move that we maintain the executive body as it exists now I would move to second I moved to 2 discussion I'm I'm a real person and the importance of history and having a sense of History has I think has come to bear and Leadership position

[00:12:00]
I don't think we would be where we are now talking about student Focus student outcomes Focus governance had had we not had the leadership in place and I would love to see us develop this new model of governance just for a little bit longer and that would give the I keep referring to us as newbies I think I need to drop that because it's been it's been a year of of learning but I think we're still relatively new to this about the importance of historical being on that historical continuum

[00:13:00]
even though right now we're shifting and so that continuity is especially important during this transition okay so thank you for remember Peterson for nominating the me particularly to stay in the position that I am in for the executive committee but I would like to decline because what I said before I am I I'm kind of ready to to look at something differently and move to a new set of opportunities within APS so I will I don't think we're there yet within our agenda but if it when it gets to secretary I will politely Decline and if I

[00:14:00]
play offer up a second nomination for president I would like to nominate Danielle or board member of the board member Daniel Gonzalez for president I think that she has the the just the the background to really if I'm going to use a metaphor I think we got on the track of sosg we're on the track of student outcomes Focus governance she is one she is the lead who brought us this this opportunity through AJ crabill and through great City Schools she alerted it or alerted us to this fantastic opportunity that we had to really change the governance structure for the board and she has the the policy and 20 years of history of working within education and within

[00:15:00]
really focusing on how school boards can change the way they do business run more effectively and I think as we transition into this you know new new governance we're on the track but now we need the conductor who's going to you know put it in gear and move us down and that is definitely not to say and this is always the hardest part is definitely not to stay the current leadership could not do that and this is It's hard to make these nominations right because it's not a this or that it's it's that I believe Danielle I believe board member Gonzalez has the tenacity to really drive us where we need to go in this next year so my second nomination is for board member Gonzalez for president I think we're just a president right now right we are but I

[00:16:00]
Motion in the second to elect the panel so Dr Albright I'm assuming we're going to have to vote on that first and last board member Peterson wants to make a friendly amendment of any sort no I'd like to see a vote on maintaining the existing leadership are there any other nominees for president besides he's already nominated outside so your motion member Peterson is for the three people that you so that's what you want to vote on though okay may I ask a clarifying questions

[00:17:00]
are there any other nominations for any visuals for president so more than one person is not more than one person nominated so at this point I believe doctor all right to maintain the current executive committee leadership period

[00:18:00]
yes Danielle Gonzales no or Peterson yes yes thank you Crystal Savannah

[00:19:00]
okay so so I guess board member Jackson what we could do I mean is you can either resign your position today or we can and we can pick it up at the next meeting to go ahead and elect a new secretary cuz I believe that's what the bylaws say is that we could do that so we could give you the the time to consider it for the next meeting when we come together and we can have nominees or you could politely decline it now or resign it now we could take new nominations for secretary well I think my question then becomes are we continuing on with the discussion of committee chairs yes

[00:20:00]
is I understand the boat it was just for the executive committee and then as I understand the agenda I'm sorry I'm not the president anymore I present to you the new president you wanted to buy a Cordova would be after that is that we would take considerations for the Committees for the the Committees that we have the work groups and the Committees that we have so we can either go on to that and or we could we could entertain emotion on your position if you'd like to decline it well I think things have shifted from the original discussion as to what positions people would like and so maybe maybe they're now needs to be another discussion as to positions that now people are interested in before I

[00:21:00]
declined to be on it my understanding was that we couldn't I'd have to defer that to the staff do we know on Robert's Rules if we'd have to if we couldn't Madam president

[00:22:00]
best practices we have done something to pursue an opinion if you'd like to take a few minute break if that's something you'd like us to do yeah let's go ahead and just take just a quick break if we can get a legal in there cuz if not what we could just go back and we could just do each of the offices individually then can we turn the heat down tonight

[00:23:00]
no no

[00:24:00]
Google

[00:25:00]
hey Google

[00:26:00]
[Could not understand audio]

[00:27:00]
how can you cut a microphone if you haven't already had it please thank you very much

[00:28:00]
[Could not understand audio]

[00:29:00]
[Could not understand audio]

[00:30:00]
[Could not understand audio]

[00:31:00]
[Could not understand audio]

[00:32:00]
[Could not understand audio]

[00:33:00]
do we have determined that by Robert's Rules if a winner declines the office after being elected you have what is called an incomplete election and to resolve the incomplete election you need to reopen nominations for that position it is not that specific but I would assume yes because it was that specific person who declined the office okay thank you so we could go ahead and resume we had the conversation as well so we understand that it was about the way that it was done and so

[00:34:00]
we did get that feedback that it was valid so what could happen is board member Jackson you can either resign your position as the secretary and we can according to our policy it says you can do that at any time so you can do that either tonight because we are going to go ahead and continue with the selection of our committees moving forward so what would you like to do with this point so are we not going to have well I guess it doesn't matter the way I'm reading it though it's saying that we have to take a vote again for each position since the entire slate was not approved that is another interpretation and it's not the way this reads but

[00:35:00]
the attorneys that we spoke to said that they believed that won the resignation had to have happened prior to the vote in that our policies required to be in writing they both agreed that the vote as it stands should stand and board member Jackson chooses to resign she can or she can stay on because she is currently elected secretary but I did decline before the vote but you had to do it in our policy in writing to the President to resign the position to accept okay so what I what I'll just go ahead and do let's just go ahead and go forward we have I'm going to go ahead and just well I'll take it back to you superintendent go ahead and call for the vote then on each of the positions but just go ahead and do that superintendent actually just add a comment because I just feel like this has to be said in this is where my confusion is coming from and this is all due respect to

[00:36:00]
for the past year you have specifically told us you did not want to remain president initially when we first nominated you didn't even want the first position of president but you said I'm willing to do it for a year and then work on transitioning to someone knew you said that multiple times throughout the year and now as a fellow board member I feel like you okay I feel as if you were completely dishonest you acted completely unethical and in a way that was just not with the utmost Integrity as to what direction we were moving going forward so regardless of how the vote takes place again I feel it's important to say that because that was your position that you stated for a year multiple times thank you for bringing that up your absolutely correct I did I did say with when last year at the beginning when we were doing this I was really scared

[00:37:00]
I will admit to that because it is definitely a daunting position and I took it with a lot of trepidation knowing the job that I have and the work that I do because it is it is a big responsibility and I think that throughout the year I demonstrated that I can actually fulfill that responsibility and that Duty and I think I did it well and what happened is over the course of the year with the work that we've had the transitions that we've had and some of the work that we've had to do I came to realize that I can do this job one of the things that I do need to do is rely on the executive committee a little bit more and so moving forward what I'd like to do is to stay in this position because I think one is we still need another year of transition still I think they're still some additional work ahead there's some work with the Council of great city government the Council of great City Schools

[00:38:00]
but I've been doing some work on the the back end with that and I know with the leadership with board member Mueller out of gone and also with board member Jackson that we can actually accomplish that but also pulling in the other board members into this process I would love to be able to pull in board member Gonzalez to help us with some of the pieces as we're going forward on that as well I know that she's had a tremendous year and so I think that this would just give us an opportunity for us to complete that I'm sorry that it feels that I don't have integrity I believe I do I don't need to to have anybody tell me that I have integrity I know my integrity and I know what I do and how I conduct myself and I'm sorry if I missed represented myself if you misunderstood that some of it was coming from fear that I wouldn't be able to fulfill this position but I feel confident that I can because I do have the support from some fellow board members that we really like

[00:39:00]
for me to continue in this role I think there needs to be I think they're either just needs to be a nomination in a second I will nominate I think I've already stated why I believe that is important to us at this moment in time because I believe that continuity is important I will nominate Daniel Gonzalez for president for all the reasons I stated prior

[00:40:00]
and I will second Danielle as well okay so the people who have been nominated will be given 2 minutes to speak in order that they were nominated as to why they would like to stay as president a board member Montoya Cordova I don't know if you have anything to add to your station and board member Gonzalez thank you I just want to start by saying that I don't think a change in leadership at this point signals and anyway a change in the way that we're doing business it doesn't signal in any way a change or a step back from our focus on student focused out student focused school student outcomes focused governance nor any step back from our focus on student outcomes and a strategic plan so I think if those claims that put out there they're blatantly false as was stated previously I brought forward student Focus governance back in February

[00:41:00]
I worked previously with Dr AJ crabel and I'm well-versed in the concept and also have my coach who is a president of a school board who is leading and has been doing student outcomes focused governance since 2017 so I'm very first not only in the concept in the theory but how it works in practice in large school districts and I'm ready to bring that to bear for our school district I also spearheaded the initiative for us to put together the funding for us to bring a strategic planning process on board including the fundraising and being a part of the strategic planning committee the ad hoc committee that brought on board to the request for proposals and the interviewed all of the firms so I'm very steeped into that process and not into it as well I have a very strong educational background with the focus on policy having worked for 25 years in education policy at the federal level with the US Department of Education with many State education agencies Governors education policy buyers legislators as well as with many large Urban school districts

[00:42:00]
also demonstrated over the course of the last year that I can work with people of many diverse perspectives and can bring people together always with the focus on what's best for students and what's best for the population here of Albuquerque Public Schools I am very invested in this and able to put in the time I have demonstrated that I have continually shown up and I am available over the course of the next year to put even more time I'm available to have extra meetings I'm available for meeting with my fellow board members for community members for the district leadership with great City schools and others as well as I mentioned my current coach my current mentor and I also have strong city and county and Statewide Connections in both education and policy and so ready to bring those to bear in this position and above all hopeful that we can take the signal of the last election which I think was a sign from our community of willingness inviting us to move

[00:43:00]
word with a new vision for our school board and for our district so I'm ready to bring that as well thank you we will now take the boat so please vote for one of these nominees when your name is called Dr Albright may I please have a roll call Yolanda Montoya Cordova Peterson Crystal president do I have some nominations or

[00:44:00]
nominations we'll just take nominations for vice president this time I'll nominate do we have any second nominations for vice president we have a roll call please I'm sorry so now we'll open the nominations for Secretary of the board do I have any nominations

[00:45:00]
I'd like to nominate Crystal Tapia Romero nominate Courtney Jackson again you telling us what you want to do this or not are there any other nominations does anyone anyone else interested

[00:46:00]
yeah I'll I'll accept the nomination so there's a there's a nomination on the floor do we have a second we have a second period so now I think what we are is the conversation about our committees and the structure

[00:47:00]
a bar committees in any discussion that we have on this in terms of where we are right now with committees and work groups and leads and aligning these with our student outcomes focused governance what I do want to say on this is that we have talked about with student outcomes Focus governance is also making sure that our committees are aligned to that process that there are committees and our workshops are not workshops but our work groups are that that they come together when we need them because it's purposeful and it's not just on the schedule that goes on and on and on but that it's actually purposeful and I know that this past year Barber you had mentioned that instruction accountability hasn't met because it just hasn't really had a focus or some reason for us to call a workshop together or work group meeting on that the two committees that we do have to have or the the two represent

[00:48:00]
for audit and traditionally on our audit the vice president has taken that role and I believe that that's what's included in our in our directive or in a way that we're structured I kind of I think it says the vice president I have to go back and look the chair the vice president it's not in the policy it's not right let's say it's a standing committee so the audit committee doesn't in the past you're right in the past we had it where the vice president assumed that role but it doesn't have to be that so we can have another individual preside over audit if they'd like to do that and finance we do know we have to have those two committees for sure so is there any let's start with those two committees finance and with audit do we have any interest in those in terms of individuals wanting to

[00:49:00]
the chair in any one of those committees I actually would like to stay as the finance chair anyone else have any objections to that or anything to add we need to make not do what you need to make it formal with the nomination let's see I don't think we do it I'll nominate Crystal yes yes okay

[00:50:00]
how does the board feel about that on nominate Peggy remix it's a very short we don't mean no second so Peggy for audit we have a boat on that please Courtney Jackson yes okay let's see what I jumped around too much the the annotated thing was really confusing because I realized that part of our agenda is the storm struggling because it's got too much stuff on it

[00:51:00]
we went to the elections one of the things that I missed on the agenda was that the we had some consideration for approval of revisions to the board policies on and I think there was just some slight revisions I think they were just some pieces that were annotated in terms of switching out the dates when it was revised and the who was you know who who was there's just a ship like on page 16 I'm looking at one of those shifted from the policy chair to the board of education of President so that was item 7A we were going to but we are cutting the policy committee oh okay so I think going

[00:52:00]
by 1 through the policies the action memos And discussing potential changes to them was the okay so we don't need to go through that we would just start at 7 a.m. because we haven't yet on that one yeah and that's what I was saying is I wanted to go back to that because I realized that I jumped straight on to the Committees itself and what we had on the agenda was these revisions to our to our organizational structure and to some of these pieces so we can go back and we can go through each one of those the first one let's see let me get to my page here so in the digital version

[00:53:00]
so that was the first item is right is consideration for approval of revisions to board policy BD Board of Education organization discussion action and if the board chooses to no longer have a policy committee the signatory will need to be changed but I don't believe that we're getting rid of our policy committee so I don't think we need to vote on that one so I correct I was going to propose a small change okay so the final sentence reads the Board of Education shall alert Board of Education committee chairs I think that only is if we have committees so I was going to suggest we change it to met electricity chairs and then that was the only change okay that friendly Amendment if everyone's agreement with that yes yes okay so are you making that emotion then move that we approve policy BD with the change that I just indicated okay well second this is Peggy all right can we have a roll call on that please can I clarify that is

[00:54:00]
out striking policy committee chair exactly thank you for that clarification that's true so we're going to keep the policy chair clarification policy committee chair in there so it's not the Board of Education president on that but we do continue with the policy committee chair so did you catch those revisions okay so let's have a roll call on that please yes yes yes Crystal and I believe the next item consideration for approval of revisions to the board procedural directive on this one was only we were no longer going to have we will again I believe strike we would keep the policy committee chair in there and strike the revision of Board of Education president and let's see is there any other language or Amendment changes that would need to be made to that

[00:55:00]
are we on Board of Education B yeah consideration for approval of revisions to the procedural director for this one yes I have some okay so under vice president I think there needs to be a bullet point added that says assist in agenda preparation for for regular board meetings and the same Edition under secretary and then under executive committee there needs to be in addition the executive committee shall participate in agenda preparation for all regular board meetings so just to clarification for that when the agendas are being proposed and they have been going out to all the executive members now that's when I first see him so that's the preparation of the agenda committee I mean that's the preparation of the agenda

[00:56:00]
yeah I thought it was important that that because there was such an urgency that two out of three of us needed to approve it and I think it needs to be stated in the procedural directive that this is your obligation so that I think that those need to be added and then also a return to policy committee chair and not Board of Education president under Board of Education member responsibilities okay any other further discussion so can you clarify that are you saying that other members should not have any role in development no I know what I'm saying is that there are there were very specific responsibilities that the executive committee had that two out of three of the executive committee members have to approve the agenda before it can be posted and that was not it was a sense of urgency that was not discussed in the procedural directive so

[00:57:00]
I'm moving forward I think it's important that any person who sits as the executive committee knows that this is their responsibility that on Friday before noon you have to have approved the agenda okay so it was practiced but not policy right okay so it's just part of the procedure and that's why I just wanted to clarify because the agendas do go out to the executive team for review and approval okay so about the vice president have the clarifications do we have motion to approve with the friendly amendments the Courtney have a roll call

[00:58:00]
Yolanda Montoya Cordova yes and no Gonzalez yes Barbara Peterson yes Crystal tapio Romero yes Josefina Dominguez yes Courtney Jackson yes we don't need to go on procedures yes we do in these cases yeah absolutely right so the next one is consideration for approval of revisions to board policy bd1 Board of Education committee on this one I think it's where we had some clarifications around and I don't know we we state that we shall serve on the standing committees but I don't know that it should be shell and it should be we may serve on the following standing committees I think that we should State Maybe

[00:59:00]
we We Shall Serve on two standing committees and that's finance and audit and that we may serve on the others or that we may have some other committees what is a group feel about that so for the purpose of the procedural directive I think that's where there's opportunity to clear versus five for the purpose of the policy I do think there is the change to 123 the fourth paragraph Board of Education members may serve on the standing committees and then I think here is where we just strike capitalized property technology and instruction and accountability and keep Finance policy and audit and then the remaining language around for the work group concept so we could certainly add hot committee's or work groups or at home groups or not

[01:00:00]
and then cutting Capital outlay instruction and accountability and then in the supporting procedural directive there's some more changes that we can make okay how does a group feel about that I agree with you on that for sure because I think we may have those but we may have others we could have other committees that are named differently and we're not wedded to just that particular topic yeah I agree as well as again returning the position to policy committee chair and I had this same that strike Capital outlay instruction and keep Finance policy and audit so how and I'm just going to play a little bit of questioning here because the policy committee also is one of those that's an is it is it become

[01:01:00]
Pensacola be standing so the only ones that will be standing will be Finance policy and audit OK Google conversations and I thought because the ones that are required by Statute I guess for us and finance for sure we know that those must be in play now so sorry are you thinking yeah go ahead with me I mean

[01:02:00]
there's one of the things I was thinking about is that as we are transitioning and really putting the the pedal down on this move to strategic or s o f g it's super important that we have a policy committee as a standing committee because we if this is going to be the year where it's critical that we align the policies that we have with our governance model as well as our strategic plan and so I think it's very important at least for this year that we maintain it as a standing committee so that their regular meetings about the committee it's setting it up to be very efficient we have to be very thorough as we go through this policy diet and so there is this requirement that as we're switching to this governance model and the Strategic plan that all of the policies get a review and so having it as a standing committee that meets regularly will

[01:03:00]
benefit that efficiency model if we if we choose at the end of the year that it can move to an ad-hoc committee I think that's fine but during this transition I think it's super critical that we have it as a full committee to review the policies and review the you know go through the diet and all of that like it's because the difference between the standing committees and the ad hoc to is that right now the finance policy and audit would be the committee of the whole right so it's the board of the whole so on the policy committee all board members would be on that as we're going through that process not necessarily I think that's something we can talk through also when my response to that question was going to be because stated in a state law or authorities are responsibilities are proving the budget evaluating the superintendent and developing policy so for that purpose I think it's important to have a setting for policy development I also think that

[01:04:00]
a way that we've written instructional accountability because I wrote it was to do the things that were now doing through student outcomes Focus governance so the whole focus on student outcomes on instruction and all of that has now shifted to be part of that broader Focus which would be progress monitoring that we're going to get into once we set our goals so that then seems to me to become duplicative to have the committee and then to also have that as part of the student outcomes Focus governance progress monitoring peace and then I mean I think also in the effort to to streamline time and Effectiveness moving some of the conversation related to Capital outlay Property and Technology to the finance conversation since his largely financial and in financial would make sense to just write except when we have the need to have like a work group because of specific conversations right where it's going to be a special this year

[01:05:00]
coming up on Capital outlay could be the conversation around repurposing and the structure of what we're going to do with that so so all of these are all important I mean they're still all important so maybe I mean you might have just convinced me that we still kind of keep them named for this year as as Courtney was mentioning to and then at the end of the year will come back and revisit this and say do we just sort of like also have a procedural diet in terms of what we're going to name and how will name those at the end so I mean is there any harm and keeping them named as they are for now because they're all they're all going to have some level of importance this year and some regular some need for us to like meet regularly especially around Capitol and we know with instruction and accountability with all the stuff coming up with the Strategic plan and the monitoring and all those pieces so it might be

[01:06:00]
efficient and effective use of time when I think if all of these continue to remain Committees of the whole and we continue to have to have the work of the full staff and this whole production to do it every committee meeting rather than having three people meet in work groups or something to to iterate and negotiate and discuss and ask questions and get details out I think that's less of a burden on the District staff frankly where we can then sort of elevate those conversations to the full board meeting so just allows for Less meetings less time if we were to do that I have we said on the standing committees that it had to be the whole the committee of a whole know that's coming in okay so it I mean it doesn't mean that I will say that we're going to

[01:07:00]
we're doing things differently because I would be a lot more reading material that we don't have ahead of time to get ourselves you know up to speed I mean

[01:08:00]
I really like that process and I think the district likes that as well because it saves them time right we're not sort of stuck on just getting like these presentations and then asking a series of questions but getting it ahead of time and then being able to ask questions and then come and clarify I think personally I feel like Board of Education members may serve on the following committees and I think if we just leave it as such and don't say that they're standing but that we we may serve on those committees or at home I don't know if we have to get that because the ad hoc committee is you we could have other ad hoc committees that may be appointed for other like purposes of other projects that could come up I mean I don't anticipate that we're going to have a whole lot more coming up other than these big five topics this point I don't know

[01:09:00]
so I'm just confused how how if if we're on the s o f g you know this doesn't change anything then this this doesn't reduce our governance it doesn't align with what Mr is it Dr Mr krabel I'm sorry I don't know I mean a lot of this stuff is already going to fall under the progress monitoring dashboard that we have coming up and so a lot of this is going to be we're making duplicitous work by having additional standing committees that isn't really addressing the students what I'm proposing is that we don't make them standing committees and committing to the holes that you were saying them well I'm just I'm thinking out loud because we're thinking out loud together here but I think that so we know that we have

[01:10:00]
do you have standing committees for sure under the law that has right now is finance and audit that's really all it tells us is finance and audit and then the others committees that we may have would be policy capital and instruction and accountability it seems that we can go ahead with what the conversation it's taking care of a lot of the just the detail kinds of questions the editing the specific questions but there is substantive discussion that we need to have on any number

[01:11:00]
next and Landing committee for that though either I mean I don't think we do it at targeted conversation my question is what's going to be more efficient to break up the discussion so we have more shorter conversations and discussions or find ways of putting it all into regular meetings and I do feel like especially capital outlay is something that absolutely should not be done by a committee of that's not of the whole this is something that impacts every single District are constituents are looking to us for what's going to happen with capital outlet and and as we look at repurposing I think it's going to involve a lot of discussion and serious thought so I think that's critical

[01:12:00]
I don't think we found our way yet whether or not instruction and accountability can really and truly be met if the needs for that can be met within the regular meetings or not I think it makes sense that eventually it will be absorbed I'm not sure we're there yet given the amount of conversation that we need and what that's going to look like I mean what I what I don't want to see I mean and this is just me personally I don't want to see a series of meetings we've got the first and third and then we've got an ongoing meeting here an ongoing meeting there and an ongoing meeting there because that's not that's not fair to the district and it's not fair to us either so I think that's the whole intention here is that we know we have to we have to manage Finance I like the way that we've been doing Finance where we have a meeting and then we have you know we just go ahead and do the consent agenda we get it out of the way and

[01:13:00]
it's done and and that makes a lot of sense audit has been fairly simple because it's just that's what once a quarter once a month for a period of time but then like all these other conversations I don't want to have to have like a regular I mean I think even on the policy committee is like I think we have to we have to get together with us with the with the council so that we could structure our game plan on how we're going to do that and what and how we're going to do it so there might be a series of special board meeting for us to get a little bit more training under our belts so that we know how to do that and then finish it up but I think that once we get through that process we should be fairly I mean we could have policy committee meetings but we shouldn't how often are they now just once a month yeah we've already

[01:14:00]
that we don't need to have meetings just to have meetings and that we canceled any number of meetings because there really hasn't been a substantive agenda so in the last few months I think we've been much more flexible about how we've done meetings so what are we afraid to let go of is that the titles of these meetings may I suggest it's making sure that we can address the issues that come up in them whether you're going to put everybody's you know suggestions together and based on what we're learning and and part of me even wishes like Ashley could jump in and just help like guide us to ensure that we're not still following like old habits but really guide us into being more effective and efficient because the way I assume and I'm please please correct me if I'm wrong here none of these responsibilities is going are going away like We

[01:15:00]
still have the the full ability to maintain and govern the way we need to and be fully aware of everything that's happening within the district ultimately we're just trying to be more efficient of the staff and of our own time going forward so but I think ultimately like we're going to have to eventually make some changes that are going to be difficult for all of us you know myself included and what are we willing to adjust to what are we willing to trust the people that we brought on board to really guide us appropriately to make these decisions that are best for the district I don't want to get stuck in doing it the same way because we've always done it that way so that's what I was trying to get in on as well I think what we've learned is the single responsibility the role of a school system is to improve student outcomes and that's it that's what we should be spending our time on that's what we should be focused on and so respectfully board member Peterson

[01:16:00]
has to be a discussion of the committee of the whole I don't think that's my constituents care about frankly I have not heard that from any constituents who say that they're interested in a committee meeting on Capital outlay people are tremendously interested in student outcomes they want to know that we're going to change the direction of this school district they want to know that we're going to pull up those numbers and that's our responsibilities so I think we need to push ourselves to spend as much time as possible as much time in our board meeting as much time when we're up here focused on student outcomes focus on those goals focused on the progress monitoring and if we can help the district by streamlining with removing some of these committees then I think we should and so for that purpose I would move that we approve this policy Beady one by changing the shell to may as I mentioned in the Board of Education members on the following standing committees I would suggest the following standing committees are Finance audit and

[01:17:00]
this is Crystal a second that have any other I mean the only I mean my only concern is I've been looking at some other school districts and some things that have come up where they have found in in court that they have gone against their open meetings not exactly the same as other states so when we're not leaving it open to the public also then they have found that they are violating maybe not exactly what it says but they are saying they are violating the open meetings act by not letting everything be open to the public and so I just want to caution everybody about that because that has already happened and I just worry that that could happen to us

[01:18:00]
and if it ends up in court we would like to lose if we do that that's just that's just what my concern is from seeing what's happening in you know quartz across the country when it comes to the open meetings act and so a big part of one that I was looking at it dealt with like the everything being on the consent agenda and then they would be done in like five minutes and they said that is definitely a violation of the open meeting at not leaving things for people to hear so that's just my concern no I didn't have a question for a long list lines are the questions that we submit in writing and get answers to are those accessible to the public they will be because I think that's absolutely critical I mean that's the part of what of what that conversation people ask us questions and then we asked them so they need to know the answer and I mean the other thing is I do think

[01:19:00]
with all due respect when we start talking about repurposing schools when we start talking about closing schools there will be a great deal of concern and to have any of those conversations that are not open and transparent and accessible to the community would be it would be a huge mistake then who is organizing this meeting his meeting on the executive committee on other board members or is it increasing the burden on a smaller number of people I mean I do think I do agree that infect instruction and accountability when we start talking about student.com

[01:20:00]
transition that into our regular board meetings because that's what it is I just want to add that under the student outcomes Focus governance it actually recommends no standing committees so there doesn't need to be any standing committee on the so that's what I'm saying is like I think we're just headed to the language on that and I would almost just even strike that whole paragraph because we've set it up at the top in terms of the Board of Education will have a finance and audit subcommittee because that's required and then we do say that we will have other says members of each standing make that it says standing committees in there but you know let me read this a little bit more but committee shall have deliberative and recommending powers only I love where it says that but we go ahead and we named standing committees and I don't think we need to I think we just need to say we will potentially do that and that's it

[01:21:00]
we we are going to do what's required by law to have the finance and the audit subcommittee and the Board of Education May establish additional committees I don't even want to call him standing committees but we may establish additional committees that's up at the top and the chairpersons and members of each of these committees I don't even want to say that that they shall be elected by the board of education at this meeting we could go ahead and strike that and may serve as the we don't even have voting powers on that so I think that whole first paragraph just needs to be Rewritten and redone to just State what it is that you know just basically just stating that we may establish additional standing committees but that we really are only going to have those two additional committees so so I think

[01:22:00]
here's what I'm thinking is that this piece needs a little bit more work it's not quite there yet it's too wordy it's got too much stuff in it and we need to still go back and and and and clean this one up and so board member Monterey quarterback there is emotion on the floor though that needs to be either voted that needs to be voted on in regards to that specific language first okay so can I remind me of what the motion was you made them you want me to repeat your motion okay so the motion was for Board of Education members fourth paragraph down Board of Education members may serve on the following standing committees finance committee policy committee strike capital outlay and audit committee strike instruction and accountability committee

[01:23:00]
put forth by board member Gonzalez and second let's just go ahead and call for the vote on that then okay Yolanda Montoya Cordova yes thank you period on the following standing committee finance committee policy committee strike Capital outlay Property and Technology committee audit committee strike instruction and accountability committee okay that was the motion as a friendly amendment can we just say the Board of Education members may serve on the following committees

[01:24:00]
don't even say I'm standing and just still have his Finance policy and audit okay hey Google the Board of Education procedural directive this is item D and I think you know board we just need to remember we're going to go back

[01:25:00]
are you going to have to come back and revisit this anyway we're going to have to clean it up so this one says standing committee chair elections I don't want the word standing in there I think it's just committee chair elections can't we just strike the word standing from the entire I think that then implies that are other committees would have to have this procedure well but wouldn't we want to have if so so let me let me just ask a quick question on that so let's say that we're going to have a committee group on Capital outlay and stuff so then would with the board determine who's going to be our lead for us on that or we would have nominations for that or

[01:26:00]
what would we do currently this part of the president's responsibility okay so if if we determined that we needed a work group or whatever we want to call it on Capital outlay we could the president could name who would be the primary board members that would take that doesn't mean that it's not open it doesn't mean that we don't get to participate it's just who would take the lead for the board on that particular topic I'm fine with that so the only word that we'd be removing is the word standing no I think it's staying here because we kept it in the policy except that we would be taking out then the five standing committees period

[01:27:00]
what I was going to suggest is change 5:00 to 3:00 since we just approved a policy that needs three standing committees so there's two places in that first bullet that says 5 we would change those to 3 sorry the first bullet that's under types of standing committees and membership okay then we would cut out instruction and accountability and capital outlay and technology and on to the next page 19 I think they're still conversation to be had on whether they're all Committees of the whole or not but then later down on the page 19 and 2020 and instruction and accountability and I would suggest that we had a bullet around aligning and strategic plan under both finance and policy so if we were to name a committee then around instruction and accountability because we're going to need that I foresee us needing that

[01:28:00]
then it's because it's not in here how do we how do we set the governance for it you as the board president would just okay so I have to remember this paragraph and that is in here on page 21 I understand that so so we would be striking then the language that you're recommending to strike board member Gonzalez would be everything around those other so instruction and accountability and capital correct and we'd only have the three standing committees but then what could happen immediately just so that you could

[01:29:00]
we're going to have to ad hoc committees one's going to be on Capitol and the others going to be on a struction accountability okay and we could make some determination on like how many and who and I just have a feeling that if there's going to be four or more that are going to be on there then it's it's a board meeting so just to be aware of that okay okay yes all right so any other recommended changes and I think on this when we do have to have action on it so I guess I want to clarify the last thing which was a suggestion to add a policy I'm sorry to add a bullet

[01:30:00]
I'm not sure about the right wording for it so I just wanted to make sure that it gets captured by a board services staff so what I was suggesting was adding a bullet related to for example under policy committee at a bullet that says something like ensuring that all APS policies align with Focus government or strategic goals or something like that and the same with finance committee adding a bullet there that says ensure that financial decisions align with governance and goals and guardrails or something like that I'm not quite sure of the language but I'm looking at it on the first one that says develop and review policies of the Board of Education to ensure and enabling environment for all students to learn and thrive in alignment with student outcomes Focus governance nuclear reply where that is that's under the policy committee the mission of each committee are outlined below

[01:31:00]
age 19 the first bullet for the policy committee states that I can go back let's see let's look at the finance people is there a similar place where it could only see or maybe it needs to just Stevens of these committees is to be in alignment with Focus governance and if we stayed up there at the top once then it's done and it's implied for all of them just right where it says the missions and what page is that for remember 19 I don't know if that's a place that you can add it to 19 right before we somehow put it in there I think that my work because then it'll it'll have to do with basically all

[01:32:00]
what do you think board member Gonzalez I'm okay with it being placed there I think that what I'm noodling over is the import of it stating the importance of aligning to the goals and guardrails specifically and I'm wondering if saying alignment with Focus governance is clear enough okay I mean I think part of the strategy for us is to go through that whole you know alignment that we still have to do with with Ashley as part of our consultation and she is texting me I just want to let you know she's giving me a little bit of coaching on the back end here thank you Ashley because we're going to go through that process I think we're going to be able to come back to that I think if we're all in alignment and agreement that that's our goal is we want to get to that alignment maybe the language right now isn't something we have to worry about just yet because we can always come back and amend this

[01:33:00]
but I mean we can state it you know kind of add hockey right now you know where we're just stating it but that's our goal is that it's going to be aligned with the student outcomes Focus governance or the mission of each committee you know will be to first and foremost to be aligned with the student outcomes Focus governance and then we can clean it up later maybe the mission if at all possible I would like us to like make the changes that we need to change cuz I'm we've spent a year of we'll get back to it and I'm I mean we're here we're working on this right now and so I'll do respect to Ashley Wherever You Are

[01:34:00]
I would like us to maybe write something down specific now so that it isn't something that isn't something later on us to do list that we have to go back to again so just an idea under the policy committee adding a bullet I like the idea of the mission the missions of each committee are outlined below and will ensure that policies are aligned with sosg but specifically under policy committee I would like to add ensure that policies aligned with student outcomes Focus governments comma the aps District strategic plan and goals and guardrails and then under the finance committee I would like to add a bullet that says ensure budget preparation and financial planning aligned with student outcomes Focus governments governance comma

[01:35:00]
District strategic plan and all goals and guardrails could you repeat that one more time please ensure budget preparation and financial planning a line with student outcomes focused governance comma APS District strategic plan comma and all goals and guardrails is it a concern that we don't have a strategic plan at this point it's coming so I know it's coming but no moving forward I don't believe it is because it's assumed that there will be a strategic plan and a budget so they should be aligned to that yeah and as they're coming yeah sorry and all so just to make sure that for

[01:36:00]
all of these policies that we've done and and just I'm I'm hammering this that it moves back to policy committee chair as the Board of Education member because in all of our drafts they it's been it's been struck and so because we are to have decided to keep the policy committee we need to move that responsibility back to the policy committee chair and then I think since you did that did added to the policy and to finance committee and since we're saying what we're saying that the beginning then we I don't know if we should say something in the audit committee also but I wouldn't have any idea how to do that but if it is saying the missions of each committee are going to be in alignment with sosg then we have got to put something there so much yeah because also I do

[01:37:00]
leave that the audit committee responsibilities are pulled directly from statutes right and so it doesn't need to have additional sfg language because its statutory but we would still need to vote for policy chair right correct so maybe then we're going to have to take off with the missions of each committee that because it's because coming out of here then is the capital outlay property and Technology committees and the instruction accountability committee so we're only stating that the approaches for those other committees okay lots of amendments lots of changes you guys able to catch up go ahead I'm just making sure we have any other discussion

[01:38:00]
the whole board members are members of each committee and are encouraged to attend all committee meetings again I think this should not be all Committees of the whole I think each standing committee will be a committee of I would suggest three I'm fine with four and then I think we could strike board members are members of each committee to committee members are encouraged to attend all committee meetings but open to discussion on that so then how many many

[01:39:00]
but I think saying that each committee is a committee of the whole is where we get tied up and I think so too I think it's I agree with that that each committee will be a committee of the board and in service membership voluntary is membership appointed is membership elected how is membership constituted but we can determine that that's for us to determine my suggestion is only that we shouldn't have them all be committed with the whole and then the other part of that is and I think this speaks to Birdman's concerned that she expressed her lawyer is how do we guarantee shared knowledge and transparency to the community because I think that open meetings act work is very real and to catch it as well we only have three members that are meeting

[01:40:00]
the the intention of the law even if it might speak to the technicality of the law and I just I feel really strongly we have at this point in all transparency and honesty we have a divided board and I think it's really important that every single board member have an opportunity to have the same knowledge in the same opportunity for input so one of the things that will happen on that though is because those committees or group or whatever would be established the president gets to make the membership right so if if there's a real and you know quite frankly I mean if there was a lot of you know this like the group is really passionate about that particular

[01:41:00]
peace and everybody wants to be part of it I would say that the membership is going to include everybody but if there is a small group of there's a there's a topic that doesn't necessarily have the same passion for everybody and maybe there's only still three or four that really want to participate in that they would then we would we still have that capacity as a board to to determine that membership I don't think it's about exclusion I think it's it's all about inclusion and how and the will of this board to and they're wanting to participate so if you know this already Barbara if there's four of us that are going to be in a room it's an open meeting it's a quorum so it'll have to be announced and I have the suspicion from this particular group that it's probably always going to be quiet I can't imagine that there will be a time when it's not a quorum so

[01:42:00]
I think we have to I think we just have to sort of give ourselves a little bit of Grace as we're going through that process and we're coming into it because I know that there's been some conversations and I'm just going to I'll just put that stuff out wanting to like pull us into some conversations and not have like all the board because it doesn't necessarily impact all all of the members in a way and we should be able to have that ability to do that because sometimes that first conversation is really critical because if it's not going to impact your District in the same way that it might impact mine or somebody else's having that first conversation is critical and then thinking about the board President coming to the committee coming to the board president and saying you know now is the time we're really going to need to pull in more members then we will pull more members in and we'll have it and we'll flush it out completely but I think it gives us an opportunity to have some of those conversations without

[01:43:00]
getting ourselves all screwed up with Quorum stuff because sometimes you do have to have that conversation I mean I just wanted to clarify one thing so in the previous policy we did vote for those three standing committees there is process laid out here or any additional committees that's where it's all lined up too well that's where it can be determined or can be appointed by the president that's what we're talking about here we could certainly hear earlier Point create a capital work group 12345637 numbers so I think just make just clarifying that we did vote to have already so this is really just a state what is the procedure for those three cities right now and I don't I wanted to respond to the question around how do you know

[01:44:00]
how do you get up to speed I mean for me it's by reading the materials and reading the minutes looking back at the minutes watching the video and those are all public now and can be shared as well and so I do think it's just more effective use of time to have fewer board members in that meeting if it's important the agenda is posted you go you ask questions if you don't go or can't go that's kind of the way it's always been is that you don't you can't and you can get your questions asked I'm sorry answered through email so there's no intent certainly to obfuscated anything to keep anything hidden to have any I mean for me it's really just about efficiency and having this procedural directive be less specific so that we have the flexibility to do things a little bit more effectively I agree all right so I think do we have emotion on this one no we're still we're still playing with

[01:45:00]
and thank you for that reminder remember Gonzalez's was taking us back that this procedural piece would just be for the pieces that we just approved ahead of that that we would have those three standing committees this talks about how those three standing committees would function basically what their responsibilities are and then it does outline if we're going to have some other committees and as I mentioned earlier we're going to need a capital there's no doubt so we're going to name that one for sure and we're going to need something on instruction and accountability but we will name those as ad hoc committees and if I'm Dr Albright Ashley did just let me know that something that I said was redundant so if you can go where I said where I said student outcomes focused governance comma strategic plan comma golden she said I don't need to have strategic plan in there so just do student

[01:46:00]
remove goals and guardrails please to boat from both sections today I will take a stab at the motion for Board of Education in accountability and capital outlay property and Technology on page 19 in that first Danny committee will be a committee of the whole board I think it's just each standing committee will be made up of board members and committee members

[01:47:00]
encouraged to attend all committee meetings also still on page 19 the header of policy committee we are adding a bullet that Dr Albright already captured but it's something like ensure all policies aligned with student outcomes Focus governance and APS strategic plan then we are cutting the section Capital outlay Property and Technology committee which leads into page 20 as well finance committee on page 20 we are adding a bullet which ensure budget preparation and financial planning aligned to student outcomes Focus governance and strategic plan I think then we're cutting accountability and on page 22 we are striking the change that's there to keep the Board of Education number for policy committee chair

[01:48:00]
I think that's it I make that motion so on the let's see wait so each committee chair shall approve an agenda do we have anything in there that says that each chair should report to the full board where you after their committee meeting I mean we're all together on the standing committee of the whole never mind strike my thought I was just thinking out loud we're good I'm good with those

[01:49:00]
even though we may not be a member of the committee will still be able to have our opportunity to ask our questions for public to be able to hear anyhow all right so may I have a roll call please with the changes yes Crystal finance committee chair and I believe we nominated and voted in

[01:50:00]
board member top your Romero we nominated and voted in vice president for the audit chair and now we need to have a nomination and for policy I'll nominate board member Gonzalez to chair policy just based on her expertise in the end of work she's already completed on this you know it doesn't need a second Crystal

[01:51:00]
we have all of those we have the chairs cuz I don't think at this meeting we're going to talk about any of the other committees that were all currently involved in or activities that we're doing I think will do that at another day so I think we are done with those pieces so congratulations to everyone the next Board of Education meeting will be held on Wednesday January 18th 2023 at 5 p.m. and the John Milani community board room of the Alice and Bruce King educational complex 6400 Uptown Boulevard Northeast or virtually at www.aps.edu and the next special Board of Education meeting will be held on Wednesday January 25th 2023 at 5:30 or immediately following the finance committee committee meeting in the John Miller Community boardroom of the Alison Bruce King education complex and with that we are adjourned

[01:52:00]
meeting number one
